                           APPENDIX A. HIGHWAY 126 FERN RIDGE CORRIDOR PLAN




Appendix A. Technical Memorandum #1, Highway 126 Fern Ridge
Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review of Plans, Policies,
Regulations, and Standards (DKS, 2011)
                                                                                                                  



                                       
 


                          TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM #1
    TO:                Project Management Team 
                        
    FROM:              Scott Mansur, P.E., P.T.O.E., DKS Associates 
                       Peter Coffey, P.E., DKS Associates 
                       Brad Coy, E.I.T., DKS Associates 
                        
    DATE:              September 12, 2011 
                        
    SUBJECT:           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                       of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)                 P09042019003 
     




    This memorandum documents the prior plans, policies, regulations, and standards that are 
    applicable to OR 126 between Veneta and Eugene, Oregon. It identifies the applicable information, 
    relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies of the various documents. This review memorandum will 
    be used as a resource in the preparation of the OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan to help ensure 
    that the plan builds off of past effort, addresses any outstanding issues, and fits into the larger 
    regional context. 

    This resource memorandum is divided into two parts. First, it lists key issues and recommendations 
    identified in prior studies and plans that have findings or guidelines relevant to the project corridor. 
    Second, it provides general documentation of the prior plans, policies, regulations, and standards. 


    Key Transportation Issues and Recommendations
    The key issues and recommendations identified in prior studies and plans that have findings or 
    guidelines relevant to OR 126 between Veneta and Eugene are provided in the following list: 
              The Interim Corridor Strategy: Highway 126 West provides corridor planning framework and 
              was intended to be used as the starting point for the development of a Corridor Plan for OR 
              126 from Florence to Eugene. It also recommended a refinement plan (and identified a few 
              potential improvement ideas) addressing safety and congestion for the segment from 
              Veneta to Eugene to explore alternatives through a community consensusbuilding process. 
              The other corridorrelated studies further identify corridor concerns and provide potential 
              improvement ideas that should be considered. 
              The City of Veneta studies outline goals and objectives of the City. They also identify various 
              improvements, particularly on the west end of the study corridor. 
              The City of Eugene (and overall Central Lane MPO) studies outline goals and objectives of 
              the EugeneSpringfield area. They also identify various improvements, particularly on the 
              east end of the study corridor. 
_____________________________
117 Commercial Street NE, Suite 310
Salem, Oregon 97301
(503) 391-8773 | (503) 391-8701 fax
www.dksassociates.com
 
                                                          OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                               of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                                  September 12, 2011
                                                                                                         Page 2 of 27
 
        The Lane County studies outline goals and policies for the County. They also identify various 
        improvements, particularly on the side streets that intersect OR 126 in the rural area 
        between Veneta and Eugene. 
        The ODOT plans provide information and standards that are applicable to OR 126, including: 
              o The OR 126 project study area corridor is classified as a Statewide Highway. It is also 
                part of the National Highway System (NHS), is a State Freight Route (FR), and is a 
                Federally Designated Truck Route (TR). The eastern section of the corridor is part of 
                the Beltline Highway (Highway #569), and the western section is part of the 
                FlorenceEugene Highway (Highway #62). 
             o Goals, policies, and standards are provided for each transportation mode to be 
               serviced on the corridor. 
             o Access spacing standards (1,320 feet given 55 mile per hour speed limit) 
              o Oregon Highway Plan (OHP) mobility standards (vary between 0.70 and 0.80 for 
                intersections and free movements and between 0.80 and 0.90 for side street 
                stopped approaches depending on corridor segment) 
             o Highway Design Manual (HDM) mobility standards (vary between 0.60 and 0.75 
               depending on corridor segment) 
             o Implementation resources are provided that guide the preparation and adoption of 
               facility plans. 


Background Documents
The background documents that were reviewed include plans, policies, regulations, and standards 
relevant to OR 126 between Veneta and Eugene. Documents were obtained from the City of 
Veneta, the City of Eugene, Lane County, and the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT). A 
list of the documents reviewed and the page in this memorandum where each document is 
summarized is provided below: 

    Interim Corridor Strategy: Highway 126 West ............................................................................... 3 
    FlorenceEugene Highway Conditions Report................................................................................ 6 
    TPAU Review of FlorenceEugene Highway Conditions Report ..................................................... 7 
    Oregon 126 Safety Study ................................................................................................................  7 
    West 11th Avenue Corridor Study      ...................................................................................................  8 
    A New Vision for West Eugene     .......................................................................................................  9 
    City of Veneta Comprehensive Plan (Ordinance 416) .................................................................... 9 
    Veneta Transportation System Plan (Ordinances 401, 427, 432, and 464) ................................. 10 
    City of Veneta Land Development (Ordinance 493) .................................................................... 11 
    Fern Ridge Trail System: Visions and Strategies            ........................................................................... 12 
    EugeneSpringfield Metropolitan Area General Plan (Metro Plan) ............................................. 12 
    TransPlan: EugeneSpringfield Transportation System Plan ........................................................ 12 
    Central Lane MPO Regional Transportation Plan                ......................................................................... 13 
 
                                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                                 of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                                    September 12, 2011
                                                                                                           Page 3 of 27
 
    Central Lane MPO Unified Planning Work Program (FY 2012 and 2013) .................................... 14 
    2010 Federal Priorities: United Front Partners of Lane County, Oregon ..................................... 15 
    Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan ......................................................................................  15 
    Lane County Transportation System Plan ....................................................................................  16 
    Lane Code: Ch. 16 (Rural Comprehensive Plan and Rural Zoning) and Ch. 10 (Zoning) .............. 16 
    Oregon Transportation Plan .........................................................................................................  17 
    Oregon Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan             .............................................................................................  18 
    1999 Oregon Highway Plan (OHP) ...............................................................................................  19 
    Oregon Public Transportation Plan ..............................................................................................  22 
    ODOT Rail Plan .............................................................................................................................  23 
    Draft Oregon Freight Plan ............................................................................................................  23 
    Oregon State Rail System Maps ...................................................................................................  23 
    2009 ODOT Traffic Manual ...........................................................................................................  23 
    Oregon Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) ............................................... 24 
    ODOT Safety Priority Index System (SPIS) ....................................................................................  24 
    Oregon Access Management Rule (OAR 734051)                           ....................................................................... 24 
    2003 ODOT Highway Design Manual and Amendments.............................................................. 25 
    ODOT Practical Design Strategy ...................................................................................................  26 
 
The following environmental plans were not reviewed as part of this transportation memorandum; 
however, they have been reviewed by project team members and their related discussion is 
attached to this memorandum in the appendix: 
        Oregon DFW Draft Fern Ridge Area Wildlife Management Plan (2009) 
        Oregon DFW Long Tom Subbasin Fish Management Plan (1992) 
        USACE Fern Ridge Lake Shoreline Management Plan (1997) 
        USACE Fern Ridge Lake Operational Management Plan (1998) 
        Lane County Parks and Open Space Master Plan Update (2009) 

The appendix to this memorandum also includes a policies and codes review. This additional review 
identifies any existing policies or codes that might result in land use or transportation scenarios 
inconsistent with the goals and objectives of the OR 126 Facilities Plan. 


Interim Corridor Strategy: Highway 126 West
April 1998, Oregon Department of Transportation, Region 2
This report covers the section of OR 126 from Highway 101 in Florence to Interstate 5 in Eugene. It 
was prepared as a longrange plan for managing and improving transportation facilities and services 
to meet the needs for moving people and goods. This corridor plan assists in the development of 
transportation projects for implementation through the Statewide Transportation Improvement 
Program (STIP). It was prepared for this particular corridor due to its statewide significance: OR 126 
West is an important route for national, state, regional, and local users and is a significant route for 
commuters, tourists, and truck traffic. It is the primary route connecting the central Oregon Coast 
 
                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                 of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                    September 12, 2011
                                                                                           Page 4 of 27
 
to the EugeneSpringfield metropolitan area in the southern Willamette Valley. It is critical in 
regards to regional connectivity in southwest Oregon. 

The Interim Strategy was submitted to the OTC, Lane County, LTD, and the cities of Eugene, Veneta, 
and Florence for endorsement. After being endorsed, it was intended that the strategy would 
inform the agencies' transportation plans and comprehensive land use plans as appropriate. In 
addition, the Interim Strategy would be used as the starting point for the development of a Corridor 
Plan. The Corridor Plan would include further technical analysis and public outreach, with the 
intended result being prioritized project lists (based on short and longterm costs and benefits) for 
each jurisdiction that has the responsibility for implementation as appropriate. The project lists 
would also include cost estimates and financing strategies. The final Corridor Plan would then be 
adopted by ODOT as an element of the state transportation system plan. 

The Interim Corridor Strategy includes the following chapters: 
         Executive Summary 
         Chapter 1: Overview of Corridor Planning 
         Chapter 2: Highway 126 West Corridor Overview 
         Chapter 3: Existing Conditions and Facilities 
         Chapter 4: Future Conditions 
         Chapter 5: Issues, Opportunities, and Constraints 
         Chapter 6: Interim Corridor Strategies 

Specific public comments, analysis findings, and strategy recommendations from the strategy for 
the section of OR 126 from Veneta to Eugene include the following: 

    Safety and Crash Profile 
         Two of the four fatalities on the corridor between 1994 and 1996 occurred between Veneta 
         and the Beltline Highway in Eugene. This is a proportionately high number of fatalities 
         (relative to total collisions) compared to the other corridor segments. 
         Safety was one of the most frequently cited public concerns for the corridor. Curves, rain, 
         and darkness were three of the main contributors to unsafe conditions, especially in 
         locations where there are higher traffic volumes, the road is narrower, and there are ruts in 
         the pavement. In addition, the lack of shoulders creates difficulties for service vehicle and 
         emergency situations. Priority locations along the corridor should be identified. 

    Public Transit 
         The Strategy recommends working with existing providers to improve transit service and 
         intermodal links along the corridor; specifically, proposes that Lane Transit District (LTD) 
         improve bus service within the City of Veneta and from Eugene to Veneta, including a Park
         andRide in Veneta with convenient express service to Eugene. 
 
                                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                  of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                     September 12, 2011
                                                                                            Page 5 of 27
 
    Bicycles 
          The Strategy recommends widening shoulders as needed (specific sections to be mapped in 
          Phase II); particular concern for the section between Veneta and Eugene. Constraints 
          include varying shoulder widths, limited alternative routes, geographic constraints, and 
          environmental issues. 
          The Eugene Bicycle Coalition recommended designating a bike route from Territorial Road 
          to Eugene: travel east on East Bolton Road, south on Huston, east on Perkins, east on 
          Cantrell, and north on Nielson to Highway 126, where cyclists would cross at Willow Creek 
          and use the Fern Ridge Path the remainder of the way to Eugene. This would require 
          repaving gravel on Cantrell and Nielson and signing the route. 

    Pedestrians 
          There are no sidewalks along the corridor. The need for pedestrian facilities along the 
          corridor was not a large concern for corridor users due to reliance on the automobile. 
          However, facilities should be considered within Veneta and at other locations with 
          pedestrian activity. 

    Environmental 
          There are multiple potential conflicts with natural resources (including multiple plant and 
          animal habitats) near the highway due to the proximity of the Fern Ridge Reservoir. 
          However, the Fern Ridge Reservoir and other scenic and natural resources could be made 
          into destinations for recreation, with improvements such as a bike path connection and 
          turning wetland mitigation areas into recreational education areas. 
          There is interest in balancing the needs of people versus the environment. 

    Freight Rail 
          The Strategy recommends supporting appropriate land use designations to provide 
          increased freight rail access opportunities. 

    Motor Vehicle Capacity 
          The section between Veneta and Eugene is the most heavily congested on the corridor. 
          Congestion could increase with employment growth in west Eugene and residential 
          development in Veneta. 

    Refinement Planning 
          The Strategy recommends a refinement plan addressing safety and congestion for the 
          segment from Veneta to Eugene to explore alternatives through a community consensus
          building process. This section is of particular concern to residents of the Veneta area, many 
          of whom commute regularly to the EugeneSpringfield metropolitan area for work, services, 
          and other activities. Growing residential development pressures in Veneta and booming 
          industrial and commercial development in west Eugene have heightened concerns about 
          the future capacity of OR 126 for all travel modes. The highway has two lanes with minimal 
 
                                          OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                               of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                  September 12, 2011
                                                                                         Page 6 of 27
 
       shoulders. Expansion of the roadway is severely limited by environmental constraints. Some 
       identified congestion and capacity improvements to consider include (1) widening the 
       shoulders for bike lanes and emergency parking, (2) expanding the highway to four lanes, 
       (3) paving K.R. Nielsen Road for use as an alternative route, (4) rerouting OR 126 around the 
       Fern Ridge Reservoir, and (5) adding a reversible HOV lane between Veneta and Eugene. 


Florence-Eugene Highway Conditions Report
2001, Oregon Department of Transportation
This report provides information about the OR 126W corridor in an electronic format primarily 
using interactive maps. It contains a comprehensive data set that describes the current physical and 
operating conditions on OR 126W. It also provides a general forecast of future travel demand and 
an assessment of the ability of the existing highway to handle expected growth through 2025 under 
nobuild conditions (i.e., if no improvements are made between now and then). Therefore, its 
intent is to pinpoint the geometric, operational, and safety deficiencies that are likely to occur if 
there is no investment in OR 126W, beyond those currently planned and programmed. Using the 
information in this report, ODOT and local partners will be able to define critical problems, analyze 
alternative improvement concepts, and develop recommended longterm solutions to the problems 
created by the deficiencies in the 126W corridor. 

The study addresses the following issues (which are listed along with some specific information 
related to the corridor segment between Veneta and Eugene): 
       Overview of related plans, policies, and studies 
       Discussion of corridor significance and history 
       Trends in population, employment, land use, and travel growth 
          o Majority of traffic volume growth occurs between Veneta and Eugene 
       Existing and forecast conditions for each of the eleven 126W study intersections analyzed 
       and each mainline highway segment 
           o Future congestion expected at all unsignalized intersections between Veneta and 
               Eugene 
       Environmental conditions 
       Opportunities and recommendations for shortterm improvements (i.e., those that could be 
       made before the completion of a full alternatives analysis for the corridor) 
          o Widen shoulders 
          o Restripe roadway 
          o Install advance intersection sign 

This report is intended to help ODOT focus its planning efforts on the most significant problems and 
to act as a catalyst for further discussion about how best to invest in OR 126W. The next phase in 
planning for the future of 126W is to determine which transportation improvement alternatives will 
 
                                          OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                               of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                  September 12, 2011
                                                                                         Page 7 of 27
 
best protect and improve travel conditions in the corridor. The secondphase was expected to take 
the form of a corridor plan or refinement plan involving the following basic steps:  

       Evaluate the deficiencies identified in phase one 
       Identify the problems that cause the deficiencies 
       Identify alternatives to address the problems 
       Evaluate the alternatives 
       Develop solution recommendations 


TPAU Review of Florence-Eugene Highway Conditions Report
December 7, 2001, ODOT Transportation Planning Analysis Unit
The ODOT Transportation Planning Analysis Unit (TPAU) performed a traffic analysis that was used 
in the preparation of the 2001 FlorenceEugene Highway Conditions Report. The analysis was for 
30th highest hour traffic volumes under the 2001 Existing and 2025 Future NoBuild scenarios. The 
memorandum indicates that traffic characteristics for the section of OR 126 from Florence to 
Veneta was characterized as daily commuter traffic with a peak hour from 5:00 to 6:00 p.m. This 
finding was supported by the higher volumetocapacity ratio at the OR 126/Territorial Highway 
intersection during the weekday p.m. peak hour versus the weekend recreational peak hour (both 
peak hours were analyzed for this intersection). 

The future analysis indicated that in the 2025 NoBuild scenario, both unsignalized intersections and 
the entire mainline between Veneta and Eugene fail to meet the 1999 OHP mobility standards. One 
potential improvement that would address congestion (though may have other undesirable 
impacts), would be to widen this section of the highway to four lanes. In addition, the Fisher Street 
and Central Road intersections with OR 126 are locations that may need turn lanes in the future due 
to safety and operational concerns. If turn lanes on OR 126 are provided in the future, then they 
should be sufficiently long to accommodate potential queues caused by gate down time at the 
adjacent railroad track. The Fisher Street intersection was also identified as a location that is 
expected to meet traffic signal warrants under the 2025 Future scenario.  


Oregon 126 Safety Study
April 8, 2005
This study provides an analysis of highway safety on OR 126W between the western edge of the 
Eugene metro area and US 101 in Florence. The study identifies the types, causes, and severity of 
crashes given the current highway condition and daily traffic. One purpose of the study was to 
assess the impacts of future projected traffic as well as previously unanticipated casino traffic 
growth on the existing safety condition in the corridor. Study recommendations include safety 
mitigation priorities that encompass the range of alternatives including education, enforcement, 
and engineering options. 
 
                                          OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                               of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                  September 12, 2011
                                                                                         Page 8 of 27
 
The study includes the following sections: 
       Executive Summary (April 8, 2005) 
       Safety Concern Spreadsheet 
       Crash Analysis Report (July 2004) 
       Law Enforcement/EMS Interviews (July 26, 2004) 
       Casino Safety Impacts (October 25, 2004) 
       Implementation Strategy/Conceptual Mitigation Alternatives (November 23, 2004) 

Some of the specific findings and recommendations for the corridor segment between Veneta and 
Eugene include the following: 
       Enforcement staff and EMS first responders would benefit from: 
          o Turnarounds and launch pads 
          o Roadway and/or shoulder widening 
       Safety could be improved by installing: 
           o Shoulder rumble strips where 4' shoulders are available 
           o Edge and centerline raised pavement markers when permitted by ODOT (or other 
               centerline demarcation to help reduce crossover collisions) 
       The segment between Milepoints 49.00 to 49.49 (near Fern Ridge Reservoir) is a two lane 
       roadway with guardrail that protects drivers from water (wetlands) on each side of the 
       roadway. This segment was examined in greater detail due to higher occurrence of crash 
       severity and frequency. The analysis indicated that this segment: 
          o Has a long straight section with intersection at MP 49 not clearly defined with 
               decreased sight visibility due to location and placement of guardrail 
          o Needs improved visibility or audible for improved recognition of intersection 
       A major contributing factor to crash potential appears to be the diverse mix of corridor 
       users that includes everything from log trucks to recreational travelers heading to and from 
       the coast. Accordingly, raising the awareness of all drivers to the need to drive safely is 
       expected to produce the most beneficial and observable results 


West 11th Avenue Corridor Study
July 2010, DKS Associates for the City of Eugene
A study of the West 11th Avenue corridor (which transitions into OR 126 as it heads west and leaves 
the Eugene UGB) was completed for the City of Eugene in 2010. The purpose of the study was to 
identify shortterm strategies to improve bicycle and pedestrian facilities, corridor safety, access, 
signal timing, and traffic operations. The corridor study area spanned from Green Hill Road on the 
west to Chambers Street on the east. 

The only overlap of the West 11th Avenue Corridor Study with the current OR 126W Fern Ridge 
Corridor Plan is near the Green Hill Road intersection (both studies include this as a study 
intersection). The West 11th Avenue Corridor Study identified the need to either upgrade West 11th 
Avenue to a fivelane urban arterial or construct a duallane roundabout at the West 11th Avenue 
 
                                          OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                               of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                  September 12, 2011
                                                                                         Page 9 of 27
 
(OR 126W)/Green Hill Road intersection (though this improvement was not one of the four 
improvements identified as highest priority for ODOT and the City of Eugene). 

The study also identified the need to provide an improved bicycle connection between Ed Cone 
Boulevard (which has bike lanes and connects to the Fern Ridge Path) and Crow Road (which is a 
major cycling route). Any bicycle facility improvements on OR 126 should consider how best to 
connect to the Fern Ridge Path in this vicinity. 


A New Vision for West Eugene
March 2009, West Eugene Collaborative
The West Eugene Collaborative (WEC) formed in early 2007 with the aid of the Oregon Consensus 
Program. It is an ad hoc group encompassing a broad variety of viewpoints, including political and 
governmental leaders, business leaders, leaders of neighborhood groups, leaders of nonprofit 
organizations, and leaders within the environmental community. The WEC's purpose is to "develop 
an integrated land use and transportation solution, supported by stakeholders, that will facilitate 
movement of people and commerce from/through/to west Eugene and west of Eugene while 
enhancing community, business, and the environment." 

This report documents analysis and recommendations that cover a large area of interest that 
extends as far west as Veneta. It is intended to be viewed as a general course that seems to have 
potential for addressing concerns in the west Eugene area. One of the recommendations was to 
complete a safety and mobility study for OR 126. All recommendations are intended to promote 
further public input, discussion, and consideration. Therefore, the WEC recommends efficient and 
transparent public planning, local community outreach and relationship building, and continued 
collaboration among all agencies and stakeholders. 


City of Veneta Comprehensive Plan (Ordinance 416)
Adopted September 25, 2000; most recently amended November 23, 2009
The comprehensive Plan serves as Veneta's longrange land use plan and as a policy guide to 
physical development decisions. It consists of the following eleven plan elements: 
       Growth Management 
       Community, Building, and Site Design 
       Residential Land and Housing 
       Economic Development 
       Utilities 
       Community Facilities and Services 
       Transportation 
       Parks and Open Space 
       Natural Resources 
       Air, Water, and Land Resource Quality 
       Areas Subject to Development Constraints 
 
                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                 of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                    September 12, 2011
                                                                                           Page 10 of 27
 
The Transportation element (pages 47 to 56) of the Veneta Comprehensive Plan provides goals and 
policies to guide the development of the TSP and to monitor future transportation strategies and 
improvements. These goals and policies address quality of life, congestion, connectivity, access, 
multimodal mobility, environmental impact, coordination, design standards, and other issues. 


Veneta Transportation System Plan (Ordinances 401, 427, 432, and 464)
Adopted November 9, 1998; most recently amended April 24, 2006
Veneta adopted their first TSP in 1998. This plan has been amended by ordinance three times (in 
2001, 2002, and 2006). The TSP is the longrange policy document that guides transportation 
planning within the Veneta Urban Growth Boundary (UGB) for the next 20 years. The plan assumes 
that the city will grow from its population of approximately 2,850 residents in 1996 (and 480 jobs in 
1994) to approximately 5,450 residents and 840 jobs by the year 2015 (between 4% and 5% yearly 
growth). The plan was written by Lane Council of Governments and funded by ODOT and the City of 
Veneta. The TSP chapters include: 
         Chapter 1: Introduction 
         Chapter 2: Mission, Goals, and Policies 
         Chapter 3: Modal Plans 
         Chapter 4: Implementation Actions 
         Chapter 5:Financing Strategies 

Key Issues Applicable to OR 126 Study Area Corridor
The issues raised in the TSP that are applicable to the OR 126 study area corridor include: 
    Traffic Control and Access 
         Traffic control (i.e. signing, striping, etc.) is not adequate to control flow of traffic 
         Only one signal (Territorial Road intersection) 
         Huston Road provides one additional access point which could be used to divert some of the 
         traffic through connectivity with other streets; directing traffic to Huston Road may increase 
         need for additional signal 
         Ingress/egress standards need to be fair for all access/users 
         Alternate access needed for emergency vehicles 
         Recommendation: Additional Traffic Signal(s) on Hwy 126 

    Traffic Congestion 
         Only route to the coast from Eugene 
         Congestion of a wide variety of vehicle types on road; i.e. commercial, recreational, 
         commuter 
         Road capacity is not adequate, nor has it been for 25 years 
         Future traffic on highway likely to increase 
         Recommendation: Widen Highway to 4 lanes 
 
                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                 of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                    September 12, 2011
                                                                                           Page 11 of 27
 
    Safety 
         Frequent accidents at major intersections 
         Difficult to access Hwy 126 from side streets during peak traffic hours 

    Speed 
         Speed limits are too high between Ellmaker and West Lane Center 
         More traffic enforcement is needed 
         Conflict between speeds driven by highway travelers and business customers. Ingress and 
         egress for businesses is hazardous 
         Greater speed reduction zone near traffic signal is needed 

Projects along OR 126 Study Area Corridor
The projects identified in the TSP for the OR 126 study area corridor include: 
         Project B6 (Safe Pedestrian and Bicycle Crossing of OR 126, shared responsibility between 
         ODOT and City of Veneta): The best location for a grade separated crossing improvement is 
         most likely west of Huston Road (i.e., near Hope Lane). However, crossing improvements, 
         such as median refuge islands and other treatments may be beneficial in the study corridor. 
         Project B8 (Traffic Signal at OR 126/Huston Road Intersection, shared responsibility 
         between ODOT and City of Veneta, Cost Estimate = $5 million): The TSP reported that 
         Huston Road was not meeting signal warrants at the time of the TSP preparation. Once the 
         intersection meets warrants (based on a future traffic study: Study D4), then a signal 
         should be constructed. The proximity of the railroad crossing south of the intersection will 
         affect improvement design and costs. 
         Project B14 (OffStreet Paths, responsibility of City of Veneta, Cost Estimate = $500,000): 
         Construct paths for bicyclists and pedestrians along the drainageways within the area 
         already designated open space/greenway in the Comprehensive Plan. The cost estimate 
         does not include rightofway or easement acquisition. 


City of Veneta Land Development (Ordinance 493)
Adopted January 25, 2010
Article 5 provides land development supplementary provisions, including the following 
transportationrelated sections: 
         SECTION 522: Pedestrian Access and Circulation (page 115) 
         SECTION 523: Transit Facilities (page 116) 
         SECTION 524: Access Management (page 117) 
         SECTION 527: Traffic Impact Analysis and Mitigation (page 122) 
         SECTION 528: Street Trees (page 123) 
 
                                           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                   September 12, 2011
                                                                                          Page 12 of 27
 
Fern Ridge Trail System: Visions and Strategies
July 2007
The Fern Ridge Trail System visioning document is a long range vision and conceptual tool that 
provides general insight in the following areas: 
       Establishing the need for the proposed trail system 
       Potential trail location and opportunities identification (descriptions, table, and map) 
       Factors that influenced mapping and project prioritization 
       Funding strategies (includes trial project grant schedule) 
       Community input (group meetings, open house, and questionnaires) 

This preliminary planning process was intended to raise awareness about the vision, to create a 
conceptual framework that helps facilitate the development of partnerships, and to place the City 
of Veneta in a better position to obtain grant funding and other forms of assistance as opportunities 
arise. It is a starting point to explore the feasibility of the individual projects and trail segments 
identified in the vision. The map of proposed routes is intended to be refined and adjusted based 
on additional planning and implementation efforts. Some additional efforts that are needed prior to 
implementing individual trail projects include a more detailed analysis of such issues as engineering, 
cost, funding, and environmental, social, and economic impacts. 


Eugene-Springfield Metropolitan Area General Plan (Metro Plan)
2004 Update
The EugeneSpringfield Metropolitan Area General Plan, also known as the Metro Plan is an 
overarching guidance document and functions as a framework for supplemental documents to 
provide more detailed programs, plans, and policies for the metropolitan area of Lane County and 
the cities of Eugene and Springfield. The Metro Plan is a longrange planning document that 
establishes and the goals and policies to guide land use. Land use encompasses growth, 
development, redevelopment and conservation of resources. The Metro plan includes a 
transportation element; however it does not provide locationspecific recommendations.  


TransPlan: Eugene-Springfield Transportation System Plan
July 2002
The EugeneSpringfield Transportation System Plan (TSP), also known as TransPlan, contains 
transportation goals, policies, and strategies to address transportation needs for the Eugene
Springfield metropolitan area through the year 2021. The TransPlan theme was "Improving Our 
Transportation Choices" which reflects the plan's focus to provide a variety of transportation modes 
and smooth connections between those modes.  

TransPlan has developed a Capital Investment Action Project List. The list includes both Financially 
Constrained 20year Capital Investment Actions and Future (Beyond 20 Years) 20Year Capital 
Investment Actions. The constrained projects are then subdivided into Programmed projects which 
are expected to have a 05 year implementation horizon that have funding sources identified and 
 
                                           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                   September 12, 2011
                                                                                          Page 13 of 27
 
unprogrammed projects that do not have specific funding identified but are expected to be funded 
within the 20year planning future. The TransPlan Financially Constrained 20Year Capital 
Investment Action project lists were adopted and incorporated by amendment into the Metro Plan. 
They are also the same projects identified in the Central Lane MPO Regional Transportation Plan. 
There are some differences, but the Central Lane MPO Regional Transportation Plan is more upto
date. 


Central Lane MPO Regional Transportation Plan
November 2007, Lane Council of Governments
The Central Lane Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) 
guides regional transportation system planning and development in the CLMPO metropolitan area. 
The RTP includes provisions for meeting the transportation demand of residents over a 20year 
planning horizon (2031) while addressing transportation issues and making changes that can 
contribute to improvements in the region's quality of life and economic vitality represents a 
required update to the federal RTP. 

The RTP is adopted by the Metropolitan Policy Committee (MPC) and is required to be updated 
every four years (i.e., the next update is anticipated for 2011). The ongoing nature of regional 
transportation planning allows the RTP to be a dynamic plan of action for the future transportation 
system, rather than a static snapshot in time. The RTP is particularly important for guiding 
transportation public policy and investment decision making over the three to fiveyear period 
following plan adoption, until the next plan update. 

The RTP establishes the framework upon which the region's public agencies can make consistent 
and coordinated planning decisions regarding inter and intrajurisdictional transportation. The 
regional planning process ensures that the planning activities and investments of the local 
jurisdictions are coordinated in terms of intent, timing, and effect. The RTP sets forth the longrange 
policy framework for decision making for the following elements of the region's multimodal 
transportation system: 
       Regional roadways 
       Regional transit system 
       Regional bikeways and pedestrian circulation 
       Regional goods movement (multiple modes) 
       Regional aspects of other modes, including air, rail, and intercity bus service 

Implementation actions also accompany the policy element as a core component of the RTP. The 
RTP Policy Framework (Chapter Two) and Implementation Actions (Chapter Three) are structured 
around three fundamental components of transportation planning: 
       Land use 
       Transportation demand management 
       Transportation system improvements 
 
                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                 of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                    September 12, 2011
                                                                                           Page 14 of 27
 
The RTP Policy Framework (Chapter Two) includes goals, objectives, and policies. 
         Goal: Broad statement of philosophy that describes the hopes of the people of the 
         community for the future of the community. A goal may never be completely attainable but 
         it is used as a point towards which to strive. 
         Objective: An attainable target that the community attempts to reach in striving to meet a 
         goal. An objective may also be considered as an intermediate point that will help fulfill the 
         overall goal. 
         Policy: Statement adopted as part of TransPlan to provide a consistent course of action, 
         moving the community towards attainment of its goals 

Projects Applicable to OR 126 Project Study Area
The Central Lane MPO boundary covers Eugene, Springfield, Coburg, and some adjacent 
surrounding areas. On the west, its boundary extends just west of Green Hill Road. Therefore, only 
a small portion of the study area is within the MPO boundary (in the MPO's Geographic District 4). 
The following projects were identified in the plan: 

    RTP Table 1aFinancially Constrained ­ Capital Investment Actions: Roadway Projects 
         Project 333. West 11th Avenue (Green Hill Road to Terry Street): Upgrade to 5lane urban 
         facility; ODOT and Eugene; $20,000,000; 1.51 miles; includes striped bike lane 
         Project 485. Green Hill Road (Airport Road to Barger Drive): Rural widening and 
         intersection modifications; Lane County; $2,800,000; 1.98 miles; includes striped bike lane 

    RTP Table 3aFinancially Constrained ­ Capital Investment Actions: Bicycle Projects 
         Project 453. Green Hill Road (West 11th Avenue to Crow Road): Striped bike 
         lane/shoulder; Lane County; $250,000; 0.26 miles;  

    RTP Table 3bIllustrative ­ Capital Investment Actions: Bicycle Projects 
         Project 426. Fern Ridge Path #3 (Royal Avenue to Fern Ridge Reservoir): Multiuse path; 
         Eugene and Lane County; $6,891,000; 0.91 miles;  


Central Lane MPO Unified Planning Work Program (FY 2012 and 2013)
May 2011 (Covering July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2013)
The Unified Planning Work Program (UPWP) is a federally required certification document 
describing the transportation planning activities to be undertaken in the Central Lane metropolitan 
area for a specific fiscal year or years. Development of the UPWP provides local agencies with an 
opportunity to identify transportation needs, objectives, and products. 

This document identifies the "Oregon 126: VenetaEugene Facility Plan" as one of the Major Facility 
Studies (LCOG Action Item #5). This study will be conducted in partnership with ODOT, the City of 
Eugene, and Lane County. The document states the following about the plan: 
 
                                           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                   September 12, 2011
                                                                                          Page 15 of 27
 
       Project Description: The Oregon 126W corridor, from Veneta to Eugene, is primarily a two
       lane highway with capacity and environmental constraints. Since 1998, three reports discuss 
       existing conditions and interim safety improvements to the highway. No longterm 
       improvement plan to address capacity, safety, or operations issues exists. This project is a 
       planninglevel analysis for the Oregon 126 corridor, specifically from Veneta to Eugene. The 
       analysis will precede a future National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process and will 
       reduce the costs during that process by completing a highlevel alternatives analysis for the 
       facility. This planninglevel analysis will examine existing reports, existing highway 
       conditions, future `nobuild' conditions, and opportunities and constraints. A variety of long
       term solutions, including identification of alternate routes, highway capacity improvements, 
       and/or a combination of solutions to address safety and operations will also be analyzed. 
       The analysis will identify any fatal flaws of alternatives considered and recommend 
       solutions to forward for more detailed examination during the future NEPA process. 
       Lead Agency: ODOT 
       Partner Agencies: City of Eugene Lane County, LTD, and LCOG 
       Current Status: Project startup 
       Estimated Completion: 2013 
       Estimated Project Cost: $500,000 


2010 Federal Priorities: United Front Partners of Lane County, Oregon
This document was presented to the Oregon Congressional Delegation and identified the federal 
priorities of the United Front partners in Lane County for fiscal year 2011. One of the priorities was 
obtaining funding for the Highway 126W/Green Hill Rd to Veneta Corridor Study (Lane County). The 
specified intent of the project was to perform initial planning and NEPA Study work to begin the 
process to identify problems and potential solutions for the Highway 126 West (OR 126) corridor 
extending from Green Hill Road on the western boundary of the EugeneSpringfield urban growth 
area to the City of Veneta. Detailed background information and a project description are provided 
for the project. 


Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan
Updated January 2005
The Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan applies to all unincorporated lands within the County 
beyond the Urban Growth Boundaries of incorporated cities in the County and beyond the 
boundary of the EugeneSpringfield Metropolitan Area Plan. It includes general County planning 
policies that provide broad direction and interpretation of approaches for County planning needs 
and complying with State of Oregon planning law. 

Goal 12 of the plan addresses transportation. It includes policies directed at providing a 
coordinated, balanced, efficient, safe, and attractive transportation system. 
 
                                          OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                               of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                  September 12, 2011
                                                                                         Page 16 of 27
 
Lane County Transportation System Plan
May 5, 2004
The Lane County Transportation System Plan (TSP) is a 20year planning document that provides 
greater clarity for planning and managing the County transportation system in terms of 
coordination with new development, targeted transportation improvements, fiscal management, 
and cooperation with local and state agencies on transportation issues. The TSP fulfills state 
requirements in accordance with OAR 660012. The applicable area of Figure 5c from the TSP is 
provided below and shows the proposed projects in the vicinity of the OR 126 Project Study Area. 
Most projects are rural modernization or upgrading to urban standards. There are also some bicycle 
and pedestrian projects near Veneta. 




                                                                                                       

Lane Code: Ch. 16 (Rural Comprehensive Plan and Rural Zoning) and Ch.
10 (Zoning)
The Lane Code includes transportationrelated code information in Chapter 16 (Rural 
Comprehensive Plan and Rural Zoning) and Chapter 10 (Zoning). Chapter 16 provides for allowable 
rural transportation uses and development outside of urban growth boundaries, while Chapter 10 
provides for transportation uses and development inside urban growth boundaries and outside of 
city limits. Lane County delegated authority to Eugene (and Springfield) to regulate zoning inside 
Eugene's (and Springfield's) urban growth boundaries. 
 
                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                 of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                    September 12, 2011
                                                                                           Page 17 of 27
 
Oregon Transportation Plan
Adopted September 20, 2006
The Oregon Transportation Plan (OTP) is a comprehensive plan that addresses the future 
transportation needs of the State of Oregon through the year 2030. It considers all modes of 
transportation, including airports, bicycle and pedestrian facilities, highways and roadways, 
pipelines, ports and waterway facilities, public transportation, and railroads. 

Seven goals with associated policies and strategies are provided in the plan to address the core 
challenges and opportunities facing transportation in Oregon. The seven goals are: 

        Goal 1 ­ Mobility and Accessibility: To enhance Oregon's quality of life and economic 
        vitality by providing a balanced, efficient, costeffective and integrated multimodal 
        transportation system that ensures appropriate access to all areas of the state, the nation 
        and the world, with connectivity among modes and places. 
        Goal 2 ­ Management of the System: To improve the efficiency of the transportation 
        system by optimizing the existing transportation infrastructure capacity with improved 
        operations and management. 
        Goal 3 ­ Economic Vitality: To promote the expansion and diversification of Oregon's 
        economy through the efficient and effective movement of people, goods, services and 
        information in a safe, energy efficient and environmentally sound manner. 
        Goal 4 ­ Sustainability: To provide a transportation system that meets present needs 
        without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs from the joint 
        perspective of environmental, economic and community objectives. This system is 
        consistent with, yet recognizes differences in, local and regional land use and economic 
        development plans. It is efficient and offers choices among transportation modes. It 
        distributes benefits and burdens fairly and is operated, maintained and improved to be 
        sensitive to both the natural and built environments. 
        Goal 5 ­ Safety and Security: To plan, build, operate and maintain the transportation 
        system so that it is safe and secure. 
        Goal 6 ­ Funding the Transportation System: To create a transportation funding structure 
        that will support a viable transportation system to achieve state and local goals today and in 
        the future. 
        Goal 7 ­ Coordination, Communication and Cooperation: To pursue coordination, 
        communication and cooperation among transportation users, providers and those most 
        affected by transportation activities to align interests, remove barriers and bring innovative 
        solutions so the transportation system functions as one system. 

There are also six key initiatives identified to reflect the desired direction of the plan and to frame 
the plan implementation. These initiatives are: 
        Maintain the existing transportation system to maximize the value of the assets. If funds are 
        not available to maintain the system, develop a triage method for investing available funds. 
 
                                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                  of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                     September 12, 2011
                                                                                            Page 18 of 27
 
        Optimize system capacity and safety through information technology and other methods. 
        Integrate transportation, land use, economic development and the environment. 
        Integrate the transportation system across jurisdictions, ownerships and modes. 
        Create a sustainable funding plan for Oregon transportation. 
        Invest strategically in capacity enhancements. 

The Implementation Framework section of the OTP also describes the implementation process and 
how state multimodal, modal/topic plans, regional and local transportation system plans, and 
facility plans will refine the OTP's broad policies and investment levels. The OR 126 corridor plan is a 
facility plan. The State Agency Coordination Program defines a facility plan as: "a plan for individual 
transportation facilities that includes identification of needs for using the facility, an overall plan for 
improving the system and policies for operating the facility." Facility plans must be adopted by the 
Oregon Transportation Commission (OTC), and must be developed with public involvement and 
implement the OTP and the applicable modal/topic plan goals, policies, implementation strategies, 
and broad investment scenarios.  

The OTP also includes the following elements that affect OR 126 and that were also reviewed as 
part of this Background Document Review memorandum: 

        Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan (Adopted 1995) 
        Highway Plan (Adopted 1999, Reaffirmed 2006) 
        Oregon Public Transportation Plan (Adopted 1997) 
        ODOT Rail Plan (Adopted 2001) 


Oregon Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan
Adopted 1995, Included in September 2006 Oregon Transportation Plan
The Oregon Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan is an element of the Oregon Transportation Plan (OTP), 
which was most recently adopted in September 2006. The goal of the plan is to provide safe and 
accessible bicycling and walking facilities in an effort to encourage increased levels of bicycling and 
walking. The plan provides actions that will assist local jurisdictions in understanding the principals 
and policies that ODOT follows in providing bike and walkways along state highways. In order to 
reach the plan's objectives, the strategies for system design are outlined, including: 
        Providing bikeway and walkway systems and integrating with other transportation systems. 
        Providing a safe and accessible biking and walking environment. 
        Developing educational programs that improve bicycle and pedestrian safety. 

Specific information pertaining to Bike & Walkway Planning Design, Maintenance & Safety can be 
found in Section 2 of the ODOT Bike and Pedestrian Plan. Guidance is given for walkway design, 
street crossings, and intersection pedestrian crossings. Additional guidance is also given for bicycle 
facility design. In addition, the Policy and Action section contains background information, legal 
mandates and current conditions, goals, actions and implementation strategies ODOT proposes to 
improve bicycle and pedestrian transportation. 
 
                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                 of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                    September 12, 2011
                                                                                           Page 19 of 27
 
1999 Oregon Highway Plan (OHP)
August 2006 Version (Includes Amendments Nov. 1999 through Jan. 2006)
The basic framework for the 1999 Oregon Highway Plan (OHP) is a refinement and application of 
the goals and policies stated in the Oregon Transportation Plan to the state highway system. The 
OHP gives policy and investment direction to large scale plans (such as the OR 126 Facilities Plan), 
but is not intended to direct specific projects and modal alternatives. 

One of the key goals of the OHP is to maintain and improve safe and efficient movement of people 
and goods, while supporting statewide, regional, and local economic growth and community 
livability. The implementation of this goal occurs through a number of policies and actions that 
guide management and investment decisions by defining a classification system for state highways, 
setting standards for mobility, employing access management techniques, supporting intermodal 
connections, encouraging public and private partnerships, addressing the relationship between the 
highway and land development patterns, and recognizing the responsibility to maintain and 
enhance environmental and scenic resources.  

Specific OHP policies with bearing on the OR 126 Facilities Plan include the following: 

    Policy 1A ­ State Highway Classification System 
         The OR 126 project study area corridor is classified as a Statewide Highway. It is also part of 
         the National Highway System (NHS), is a State Freight Route (FR), and is a Federally 
         Designated Truck Route (TR). The eastern section of the corridor is part of the Beltline 
         Highway (Highway #569), and the western section is part of the FlorenceEugene Highway 
         (Highway #62). 

    Policy 1B: Land Use and Transportation 
         Land use and transportation planning and development should be coordinated between 
         state, regional, county, and city agencies. Key elements of this policy indicate that the State 
         of Oregon and local agencies should: 
             o Work together to provide safe and efficient roads for livability and economic 
               viability for all citizens 
             o Work collaboratively in planning and decisionmaking related to transportation 
               system management 
             o Maintain the mobility and safety of the highway system 
             o Encourage the availability and use of transportation alternatives 

    Policy 1C: State Highway Freight System 
         OR 126 has been designated a Freight Route by ODOT, which places added emphasis on 
         efficient operation to ensure the timely and dependable movement of goods. To support 
         this function, special management objectives for freight routes were developed as outlined 
         in Policy 1C of the OHP. Key objectives relating to this plan include: 
             o Application of higher highway mobility standards than other Statewide Highways; 
 
                                                    OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                         of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                            September 12, 2011
                                                                                                   Page 20 of 27
 
              o Examine options to treat designated freight routes as expressways where the routes 
                are outside of urban growth boundaries and unincorporated communities and 
                continue to treat freight routes as expressways within urban growth boundaries 
                where existing facilities are limited access or where corridor or transportation 
                system plans indicate limited access 
              o Consider the importance of timeliness in freight movements in developing and 
                implementing plans and projects. 

    Policy 1F: Highway Mobility Standards 
         ODOT has adopted standards for mobility for state facilities through the OHP and the 
         Highway Design Manual (HDM). Standards contained in the OHP are used for planning 
         purposes to identify deficiencies, while facilities and improvements are designed to HDM 
         standards. 
         The OHP Highway mobility standards are based on various factors, including highway 
         classification and designations, whether it is within a metropolitan planning organization 
         (MPO) or urban growth boundary (UGB), and the posted speed. The section of OR 126 being 
         studied is a Statewide Highway designated as both a truck route and freight route. The 
         Green Hill Road intersection is within the Central Lane MPO, and the Huston Road 
         intersection is within the Veneta UGB. The speed limit along the entire study corridor is 
         posted at 55 mph. Table 6 from the OHP indicates the applicable mobility standards based 
         on the location and posted speed of a given highway segment. The entries of Table 6 that 
         are applicable to the study corridor are provided in the following table. 

                    ODOT Mobility Standardsa Applicable for OR 126 (from OHP Table 6)
                                          Inside Eugene UGB                  Inside Veneta UGB              Outside UGB
          Highway Category
                                       Inside Central Lane MPO              45 mph posted speed              Rural Lands
          Freight Route on a              0.80 (Green Hill Road                0.70 (Huston Road             0.70 (Rest of
           Statewide Highwayb                  intersection)                      intersection)                Corridor)
          Stop-controlled side                      0.90                               0.80                       0.80
           streetsc
          a
            ODOT operating standards obtained from August 2005 version of Table 6 in OHP.
          b
            At signalized intersections, these standards are to be applied to the intersection as a whole. At unsignalized
            intersections, these standards are applicable only to movements that are not required to stop.
          c
            For movements at unsignalized intersections that are required to stop or otherwise yield the right of way, the
            standards for District/Local Interest Roads shall be applied for areas within urban growth boundaries and a
            maximum v/c ratio of 0.80 shall be applied for areas outside of urban growth boundaries.
 
 
    Policy 1G: Major Improvements 
         According to this policy, the highest priority should be placed on protection of the existing 
         system, followed by improvements in efficiency and capacity of existing facilities. Once 
         these options have been investigated, the third and fourth priorities would be to add 
         capacity to the existing system and then to add new facilities. 
 
                                              OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                   of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                      September 12, 2011
                                                                                             Page 21 of 27
 
    Policy 2A: Partnerships 
          The limited resources available for transportation planning and development should be 
          efficiently and effectively used by coordinating the efforts of all agencies. For the project 
          corridor, the applicable agencies include the City of Veneta, the City of Eugene, Lane 
          County, and ODOT. 

    Policy 2B: OffSystem Improvements 
          The State is to provide financial assistance for local road projects when the projects are 
          costeffective in improving state facility conditions. 

    Policy 2D: Public Involvement 
          The City should offer opportunities for effective public involvement in transportation 
          planning and project development. 

    Policy 2F: Traffic Safety 
          Increase the safety of the state transportation system through engineering, education, 
          enforcement, and emergency medical services. Key elements from this policy include: 
              o In identifying solutions to traffic safety problems, consider solutions including but 
                not limited to: Increasing traffic enforcement; Involving business and community 
                groups and the media in educational efforts; using educational materials and special 
                signing to change driving practices; making engineering improvements such as 
                geometrics, signing, lighting, striping, signals, improving sight distance, and 
                assessing conditions to establish appropriate speed; constructing appropriate 
                bicycle and pedestrian facilities including safe and convenient crossings; managing 
                access to the highway; developing incident response and motorist assistance 
                programs; ensuring the uniformity of traffic control devices; and developing driver 
                information systems. 
              o Continue to develop and implement the State's Safety Management System to 
                target resources to sites and routes with the most significant safety problems. 
                Encourage local governments to adopt a safety management system. 
              o Work with citizens and local jurisdictions to address safety concerns on the state 
                highway system. 

    Policy 3A: Classification and Spacing Standards 
          Access to state highways should be managed to assure safe and efficient operations 
          consistent with the classification system outlined in Policy 1A. Access considerations include 
          the location, spacing, and type of access (i.e., public versus private). Access spacing 
          standards and management objectives for OR 126 are based on its designation as a 
          Statewide Highway (NHS) and NonExpressway (i.e., Rural Other): 
              o Statewide Rural Highways provide for high speed, continuous flow and through 
                traffic movement. 
              o Direct access to the abutting property is a minor objective. 
 
                                           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                   September 12, 2011
                                                                                          Page 22 of 27
 
             o The function of the highway is consistent with purchasing access rights. As the 
               opportunity arises, access rights should be purchased. Preference is to purchase 
               access rights in full. 
             o The primary function of these highways is to provide connections to larger urban 
               areas, ports and major recreation areas of the state not served by Freeways or 
               Expressways. 

    Policy 3B: Medians 
         Policy 3B in the OHP addresses the installation of nontraversable medians in state 
         highways. According to this policy, the installation of nontraversable medians shall be 
         considered for (only potentially applicable conditions for OR 126 are listed): 
             o Highways not undergoing modernization where a median could improve safety; 
             o Highways where forecasted average daily traffic is anticipated to be 28,000 vehicles 
               per day during the 20year planning period 
             o The annual accident rate is greater than the statewide average accident rate for 
               similar roadways 
             o Pedestrians are unable to safely cross the highway, as demonstrated by an accident 
               rate that is greater than the statewide annual average accident rate for similar 
               roadways 
             o Topography and horizontal or vertical alignment result in inadequate leftturn 
               intersection sight distance and it is impractical to relocate or reconstruct the 
               connecting approach road or highway to improve the situation 

Goal 3 (Access Management) is critical in transportation planning efforts that involve state 
transportation facilities. This goal is implemented through OAR 734051, which is reviewed later in 
this Background Document Review Memorandum. Goal 4 (Travel Alternatives) and Goal 5 
(Environmental and Scenic Resources) also apply, if in limited ways. Goal 5, with an aim to go 
beyond what is required by other state and federal regulations, calls for natural resources to be 
maintained and even improved by transportation planning and projects involving state facilities. 


Oregon Public Transportation Plan
Adopted 1997
The transit modal plan, called the Oregon Public Transportation Plan (OPTP), develops the Oregon 
Transportation Plan (OTP) goals and objectives related to the public transportation system, 
including public transit, special needs transportation, transportation options and intercity bus. 
Public Transit Division's programs are designed to implement the OPTP. The OPTP was adopted in 
1997, and is scheduled to be updated beginning in 20112013. 
 
                                           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                   September 12, 2011
                                                                                          Page 23 of 27
 
ODOT Rail Plan
Adopted 2001, Included in September 2006 Oregon Transportation Plan
The Oregon Rail Plan is a comprehensive assessment of the state's rail planning, freight rail, and 
passenger rail systems (not including light rail or other rail transit type services). It documents and 
describes various federal and state rail planning requirements and highlights specific goals and 
policies. It also reviews the development of the state freight and passenger rail systems and 
identifies needed improvements. Particular emphasis is placed on safety, public and private 
coordination, efficiency, and multimodal integration. Segments of the plan that are expected to be 
the most relevant to the OR 126 Facilities Plan are referenced below (and should be referred to as 
needed throughout the planning process): 

        Rail Division Involvement: Whenever any road work (including construction of a sidewalk) is 
        proposed within 500 feet of a railroad track, the party responsible for the project should 
        consult ODOT Rail Division. A checklist guiding ODOT Rail is provided on pages 2324. 
        New Crossing Construction: Related information is provided on page 24. 
        Alteration of Existing Public Crossings: Related information is provided on page 24. 
        Improving Safety: Safety is the most important conflict to mitigate in most urban areas. 
        There are a variety of ways to improve safety at grade crossings that may be applied 
        individually or in combination. These alternatives are identified on pages 3132. 
        Minimizing Conflict and Increasing Access: Careful planning can mitigate conflict and 
        improve access. Recommendations for local jurisdictions are provided on page 33. 


Draft Oregon Freight Plan
December 15, 2010 (most recent draft)
The Oregon Freight Plan (OFP) is currently in draft form and has not yet been adopted. Its purpose 
will be to improve freight connections to local, state, regional, national and global markets in order 
to increase traderelated jobs and income for Oregon workers and businesses. It will provide a 
roadmap for the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT), other state and local agencies, and 
the private sector to work together to preserve and enhance the State's freight system. 


Oregon State Rail System Maps
The railroad that runs parallel to OR 126 is identified on the Oregon State Rail System maps as an 
Oregon Short Line. There is no passenger rail that uses this track, but OR 126 is identified as an 
Intercity Bus Route as well as an Interline Thruway Bus Route. 


2009 ODOT Traffic Manual
The ODOT Traffic Manual is a comprehensive reference for traffic engineering practices published 
by the Traffic Engineering and Operations Section. This manual covers recommended practices for 
use on state facilities in the areas of access management, bicycle treatments, capacity analysis, 
 
                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                 of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                    September 12, 2011
                                                                                           Page 24 of 27
 
crash analysis, crosswalks, illumination, signing, pavement markings, parking, sight distance, speed 
zones, traffic calming, turn lanes, uturns, and other topics. 


Oregon Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP)
2010 ­ 2013 STIP and 2012 ­ 2015 Draft STIP
The current adopted (20102013) Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) serves as 
ODOT's short term capital improvement program and provides funding and scheduling information 
for transportation projects for both ODOT and the metropolitan planning organizations in the state. 
Projects funded in the STIP reflect and advance the Oregon Transportation Plan for highways, public 
transportation, and for freight, passenger rail, bicycle, and pedestrian facilities. No projects on the 
OR 126 study area roadway were identified within the adopted 20102013 STIP or the draft 2012
2015 STIP. 


ODOT Safety Priority Index System (SPIS)
Prepared in 2010 using data from 2007 to 2009
The Safety Priority Index System (SPIS) is a method developed by ODOT for identifying potential 
safety problems on state highways. SPIS scores are developed based upon crash frequency, 
severity, and rate. A prioritized list is created for each region (the top 10 percent of statewide SPIS 
sites) and the top five percent are investigated by the five Region Traffic manager's offices. There 
are not locations on the OR 126 study corridor within either the top five or top 10 percent, but the 
Green Hill Road intersection is in the top 15 percent of statewide SPIS sites. 

In addition to the SPIS, the Safety Investment Program (SIP) is a tool used to identify accident 
history in 0.10 mile or variable length segments on state highways. The OR 126 study corridor has a 
Category 3 SIP rating because from 2007 to 2009 it had three to five fatal or serious injury crashes 
per 5 mile segment. 


Oregon Access Management Rule (OAR 734-051)
The purpose of Oregon's Access Management Rule is to control the issuing of permits for access to 
state highways, state highway rights of way, and other properties under the State's jurisdiction. In 
addition, the ability to close existing approaches, set spacing standards, and establish a formal 
appeals process in relation to access issues is also identified.  

These rules enable the State to set policy and direct location and spacing of intersections and 
approaches on state highways, ensuring the relevance of the functional classification system and 
preserving the efficient operation of state routes. Regulating access can: 
        Protect resource lands 
        Preserve highway capacity 
        Ensure safety for segments of state routes with sharp curves, steep grades, or obstructed 
        sight distance. 
 
                                                        OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                             of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                                September 12, 2011
                                                                                                       Page 25 of 27
 
The access management standards adopted by ODOT and applicable to the OR 126 project study 
corridor are summarized in the table below. 

Applicable ODOT Access Management Standards (from 1999 OHP, Appendix C, Table 14)

                             a
                                                           Spacing Standardsb (by Posted Speed)
    Highway Category
                                              55 mph              40,45 mph             30,35 mph            25 mph
    Statewide Highway (urban)                1,320 feet             990 feet              720 feet           520 feet
    Statewide Highway (rural)                1,320 feet             990 feet              770 feet           550 feet
    a
        OR 126 is classified by ODOT as a Statewide Highway.
    b
        Measurement of the approach road spacing is from center to center on the same side of the roadway.

    Source: 1999 Oregon Highway Plan, Appendix C, Table 14
 
ODOT applies the urban access standards for OR 126 within the Eugene and Veneta UGBs and the 
rural standards elsewhere. Any new street or driveway connections, as well as any changes to 
existing street or driveway connections, on OR 126 must be found to be in compliance with these 
rules by ODOT. 

The 2011 Oregon Legislature passed SB 264 which will result in significant changes in how ODOT 
manages access to state highways. Some of the proposed changes will be incorporated into statute 
and will go into effect immediately. ODOT is also directed to make changes to OAR 73451 to 
implement provisions of the bill. 


2003 ODOT Highway Design Manual and Amendments
2003, with revisions in 2004 and 2005-2006
The ODOT Highway Design Manual (HDM) contains standards for the design of state highways and 
various highway elements. Included in the manual are elements to be considered for evaluating the 
feasibility of construction and determination of right of way needs such as the general alignments, 
roadway widths, and criteria for installation of turn lanes. In addition, the HDM should be used to 
identify areas where design exceptions may be required. 

The HDM displays the maximum allowable volume to capacity ratios for the 30th highest annual 
hour of traffic for use in the design of highway projects. These standards are to be applied to 
conditions forecasted to exist 20 years after completion of the proposed improvement. If the 
applicable mobility standard cannot be met, a design exception would be required. Mobility 
standards from the HDM applicable to the study area are presented in the following table. 
 
                                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                          of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                             September 12, 2011
                                                                                                    Page 26 of 27
 
Applicable Highway Design Manual 20 Year Design-Mobility Standards (v/c ratios)
                                   Inside Eugene UGB               Inside Veneta UGB          Outside UGB
    Highway Category
                                 Inside Central Lane MPO         45 mph posted speed           Rural Lands
    Statewide (NHS)                0.75 (Green Hill Road               0.70 (Huston Road   0.60 (Rest of Corridor)
     Freight Route                      intersection)                     intersection)
    a
        ODOT operating standards obtained from 2003 HDM, Table 10-1.
 

ODOT Practical Design Strategy
March 1, 2010, ODOT Highway Division
Practical Design is a relatively new term used to define and improve current best practices for 
developing costeffective transportation solutions that are the right projects, at the right time, at 
the right cost, and in the right way. It is a strategy that delivers focused benefits for the State's 
transportation system while working with the realities of a fiscally constrained funding 
environment. It focuses more on meeting the specific purposes, needs, and context of 
transportation projects and on identifying solutions that are considered sufficient to improve the 
transportation system without being excessive. Therefore, there is more flexibility in design, which 
will typically result in greater analysis and planning costs. However, the intended result is a more 
cost effective roadway solution. 

ODOT has developed a strategy for Practical Design that provides a foundation for thought and 
processes to achieve more focused improvements at a lower cost, even if those improvements are 
not as long lived as traditional ODOT highway improvements. This strategy is presented in a 
guidebook that has the following sections: 
              I. Philosophy 
              II. Focus 
              III. Roles and Responsibilities of Primary Decision Makers 
              IV. Integrating Practical Design and Project Delivery 
              V. Success Indicators 
              VI. Future Improvements 
              VII. Appendices 

The guidebook identifies the focus of Practical Design in Oregon, as shown in box below (which was 
taken from page 9 of the guidebook). 
 
                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Transportation Review 
                                                 of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (Task 3)
                                                                                    September 12, 2011
                                                                                           Page 27 of 27
 




                                                                                                  
ODOT has five key values associated with Practical Design. These values are represented by the 
acronym S.C.O.P.E.: 
       Safety 
       Corridor Context 
       Optimize the System 
       Public Support 
       Efficient Cost 

The guidebook also states the following: 
       "Although it is not a "silver bullet," Practical Design is the next logical step for ODOT. 
       It allows us to deliver the broadest benefits to the transportation system, within 
       existing resources, by establishing appropriate project scopes to deliver specific 
       results. It provides flexible parameters so that design teams can be confident that a 
       particular solution is sufficient to improve the transportation system as a whole." 

Additional information on ODOT's approach to Practical Design is provided on the following 
website: 
       http://www.oregon.gov/ODOT/HWY/TECHSERV/practical_design.shtml 
                            APPENDIX B. HIGHWAY 126 FERN RIDGE CORRIDOR PLAN




Appendix B. Technical Memorandum #2, Highway 126 Fern Ridge
Corridor Plan­ Existing Transportation Conditions (DKS, 2011)
                 STUDY AREA
EN R




                                                                                                          CONRAD
       D




                                                                                              CHERYL LN
                                                                                                                          JEANS RD       ZUMWALT
                                                                                                                                         PARK




                                                                          WINTER LN
  HORN RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                                           ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                                         CHUKAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OAK HILL PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FISHER RD
         E        RD
     TTL
   SU
                                                                                            WIGGINS
                                           VENETA                                                                                                     PERKINS PENINSULA
                                                                                                                                                            PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GOBLE LN
                                                JEANS RD
                                                                                      WILDWOOD RD                                                                          Boat Ramp                                                                                JUDY
                                                                  Public Works                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                126
                                                                                                                                   126
                    BROADWAY                    AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KEN NIELSEN RD                                                                                            ED CONE BLV




                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                 Veneta Elementary       Veneta Wellhead
                          5TH ST




                                                                                                                                                        RAL R
                 8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LA PORTE DR
                                            Fire Station                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OAK HILL                      CROW RD
       10TH ST




                                              Library                                INSET




                                                                                                                                                       CENT
                                                                                HUSTON RD




                                                BOLTON RD          JOSEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Coyote Creek
                 Oregon Dept.                                                                                                                                                                     Canoe Trailhead
                   Of Forestry CHENEY DR                                                                                                                                    CANTRELL RD                                                                                          CANTRELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W RD
                  Fire Station
                                                                                                                                             Fire Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUGENE




                                                                                                                                                                                                      HALDERSON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CRO
                                                                                                                                     PERKINS RD
                                                                                            BIGGS RD
                              TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VERA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MCTAVI




                                                                                                                                                                                       OAK KNOLL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HAZEL DELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GIRL SCOUT RD



                          1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ED
                                                OR 126W Fern    Ridge Corridor Plan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RD
                                                          FLECK RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FEATHER DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BENSON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MB
                                                                                                                                   Central
                                                         MUIRLAND DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BUSHYTAIL LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DUKHOBAR
                                                                                                                                                              PICKENS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TI
                                                                                                                                   Grange
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CLAY DR
                 Legend




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WILDWOOD RD
                                                                                                                                                                                       VENETA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELLMAKER
                                                 Study Intersection                                                               Railroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 126
                                                 Place of Interest                                                                Urban Growth Boundary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HUSTON RD


                                                 Major Arterial                                                                   City Limit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ROAD
                                                 Minor Arterial
                                                                                                                                  Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PRIVATE
                                                 Collector                                                                                                                                                                                           TIDBALL LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                Veneta
                                                 Local                                                                                                                                         Wellhead



                                                                                                                                                                                             E HUNTER RD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C   HR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CO
                                                                                         OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                                                       Transportation Conditions
                                                                                                             September 23, 2011
                                                                                                                      Page 3 of 23

                                       Table 1: Existing Roadway Characteristics (Study Area)
                                                                   Functional                Travel   Posted      Side-     Bike
    Roadway                                   Jurisdiction
                                                                  Classification             Lanes    Speed       walk     Lanes
    OR 126W                                         ODOT       Statewide Highwaya               2        55        No        No
                                                                                     b
    Huston Rd                                City of Veneta      Major Collector                2        55        No        No
                                                                                         c                 d
    Ellmaker Rd                                Lane County     Rural Minor Collector            2       NP         No        No
                                                                                                           d
    Shady Rest Dr                                   Private             N/A                     2       NP         No        No
                                                                                 c                         d
    Lake Side Dr                               Lane County         Rural Local                  2       NP         No        No
                                                                                         c                 d
    Central Rd                                 Lane County     Rural Major Collector            2       NP         No        No
                                                                                         c                 d
    Fisher Rd                                  Lane County     Rural Minor Collector            2       NP         No        No
                                                                                 c                         d
    Richmond St                                Lane County         Rural Local                  2       NP         No        No
                                                                                 c                         d
    Kenneth Nielson Rd                         Lane County         Rural Local                  2       NP         No        No
                                                                                         c                 d
    Green Hill Rd                              Lane County     Rural Major Collector            2       NP         No        No
                                                                                         a                 d
    Crow Rd                                    Lane County     Rural Major Collector            2       NP         No        No
                                                                                         c                 d
    Perkins Rd                                 Lane County     Rural Minor Collector            2       NP         No        No
                                                                                 c                         d
    Cantrell Rd                                Lane County         Rural Local                  2       NP         No        No
    a
      Source: 1999 Oregon Highway Plan (August 2006 Version).
    b
      Source: Veneta Transportation System Plan (Adopted Nov. 9, 1998, Amended Apr. 24, 2006).
    c
      Source: Lane County Transportation System Plan (Adopted May 5, 2004).
    d
      NP = Not Posted ("basic rule" or safe speed for the conditions applies)
 
Daily Motor Vehicle Traffic Characteristics
Daily motor vehicle traffic characteristics were evaluated along OR 126W using bidirectional traffic 
volumes, speeds, and vehicle classification data. The data was collected using roadway tubes on a 
summer weekday1 at the following five locations: 
              OR 126W east of Huston Road 
              OR 126W west of Central Road 
              OR 126W west of Fisher Road 
              OR 126W west of Ken Nielsen Road 
              OR 126W west of Green Hill Road 

Figure 2 shows the bidirectional average daily traffic (ADT) volumes, 85th percentile speeds,2 and 
heavy vehicle percentages recorded at these five locations. The ADTs along the corridor range 
between 13,390 and 15,850 vehicles per day, with the greatest volumes occurring in the center of 
the corridor near Fisher Road. Heavy vehicle activity ranges from three to five percent along the 
corridor. The 85th percentile speed exceeds the 55mph speed limit by more than 5 mph at the four 
westernmost locations. 

                                                            
1
    All Traffic Data 24-hour classification and speed counts were collected on Thursday, June 2, 2011.
2
    The 85th percentile speed is defined as the speed below which 85 percent of the vehicles are traveling.
                                                            OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                          Transportation Conditions
                                                                                September 23, 2011
                                                                                         Page 4 of 23

Figure 3  provides additional insight regarding traffic trends by comparing the bidirectional traffic 
volumes by the hour of the day. As shown, there is a significant eastbound morning peak of 
approximately 800 vehicles per hour (vph) between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., which drops off but 
then maintains a fairly consistent 400 vph until approximately 5 p.m. In the westbound direction, 
hourly traffic volumes gradually build throughout the day, with peak volumes of approximately 800 
vph between 4:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. Therefore, this graph shows a distinct commuter trend during 
the weekday as Veneta residents drive to work in Eugene for the morning and then return home in 
the evening. 




                                                                                                      
                         Figure 2: Daily Motor Vehicle Traffic Characteristics
 
 
                              24 Hour Directional Volumes
                             OR 126(W) west of Central Road
               900
               800                                                                     Eastbound

               700                                                                     Westbound

               600
    Vehicles




               500
               400
               300
               200
               100
                 0




                                                     Time

           Figure 3: Bi-Directional Volume Comparison by Hour of the Day (Summer Weekday)
                                                                              OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                                            Transportation Conditions
                                                                                                  September 23, 2011
                                                                                                           Page 5 of 23

Origin-Destination Survey
To understand the use of OR 126W to travel to, from, or through Veneta, an origindestination (O
D) survey utilizing MAC address (i.e., Bluetooth) sampling was conducted over three weekdays in 
June 2011.3 Three data collection points were used to estimate the percentage of vehicles 
originating in or destined for Veneta or the surrounding areas versus the percentage of vehicles 
remaining on OR 126W and traveling through Veneta. The OD survey collection points included the 
following (which are shown in Figure 4): 
              West of 8th Avenue on OR 126 (west of Veneta) 
              East of Ellmaker on OR 126 (near western study corridor extent) 
              West of Green Hill Road on OR 126 (near eastern study corridor extent) 

MAC addresses recorded at all three collection points indicate a through trip that remains on OR 
126W, while those only recorded at one or two points indicate a trip either beginning or ending in 
Veneta or somewhere within the study corridor. Figure 4 shows the origindestination survey 
results as percentages of vehicles entering the study corridor at the two ends of OR 126W. Of the 
recorded westbound vehicles entering the study area, the OD surveys indicate that approximately 
25 percent turn off of OR 126W prior to reaching Veneta, 50 percent turn off within Veneta, and 25 
percent pass through Veneta and continue westbound on OR 126W. Of the recorded eastbound 
vehicles entering Veneta, the OD surveys indicate that approximately 50 percent are destined for 
Veneta while the remaining 50 percent stay on OR 126W and continue eastbound towards Eugene. 


Intersection Traffic Volumes and Operations
Traffic volumes were collected and operating conditions were analyzed at each of the following 
study intersections and driveways along the OR 126W study corridor.  
              OR 126/Huston Road 
              OR 126/ 13 existing private driveways between Huston Road and Ellmaker Road 
              OR 126/Ellmaker Road 
              OR 126/Shady Rest Drive 
              OR 126/Lake Side Drive 
              OR 126/Central Road 
              OR 126/Fisher Road 
              OR 126/Richmond Street 
              OR 126/Ken Nielsen Road 
              OR 126/Green Hill Road 

The 30th highest hourly volumes, average annual weekday volumes, intersection performance, and 
turn lane needs are documented in this section of the memorandum. 




                                                            
3
    Bluetooth sampling was conducted for full 24-hour periods on June 2nd (Thursday), 3rd (Friday), and 6th (Monday), 2011.
                                                                                                 27%
                                                                                     To Other
                                     46%                                           Destinations
                    To Veneta                                            (i.e. Central Rd, Fisher Rd, etc.)
                      Area




                                                          ELLMAKER RD
27%
Through
 Traffic                                                                                                                  126
                                                                                                                                                                100%
                    TERRITORIAL RD




                                                                                    CENTRAL RD
                                           HUSTON RD
           8TH ST




 100%                                                                                                                                                             47%




                                                                                                                                               GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                                                                                                  Go To
                                                                                                                                                                 Eugene
                                                                                                                      6%
                                                                                                                   To Other
                                                   47%                                                           Destinations
                    Veneta                 To Veneta                                                   (i.e. Central Rd, Fisher Rd, etc.)
                     Area                    Area




                                                LEGEND                                                                                                  4      Figure
                                                         - Bluetooth (MAC Address) Location
                                                                                                                                         Bluetooth Origin-
                                              00% - Traffic Direction and Percent                                                       Destination Survey
                                                                                                                    NO SCALE
                                                                           OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                                         Transportation Conditions
                                                                                               September 23, 2011
                                                                                                        Page 7 of 23

30th Highest Hourly Volumes
ODOT's Analysis Procedures Manual (APM) indicates that existing conditions operations analysis is 
to be performed using the 30th highest hour volume (30th HV).4 The 30th HV for the OR 126W study 
corridor intersections were determined by following three steps: 
              Step 1 ­ Collect Peak Hour Traffic Counts 
              Step 2 ­ Apply Seasonal Factor 
              Step 3 ­ Round and Balance Volumes 

Step 1 ­ Collect Peak Hour Traffic Counts
Motor vehicle turn movement counts were collected at the study intersections and driveways for 
the a.m. and p.m. peak periods.5 Based on the raw data, which are provided in the appendix, the 
system peak hours for the corridor were determined to be 7:15 to 8:15 a.m. and 4:45 to 5:45 p.m.  

Step 2 ­ Apply Seasonal Factor
A seasonal factor was applied to each study intersection to calculate the 30th HV. Three optional 
methods for calculating a seasonal factor are outlined in ODOT's Analysis Procedures Manual 
(APM). These three methods are listed in order of preference, though specific requirements must 
be met for each to be used: 
              Option 1 ­ OnSite Automatic Traffic Recorder (ATR) 
              Option 2 ­ ATR Characteristics Table 
              Option 3 ­ ATR Seasonal Trend Table 

Option 1 is not applicable because the study corridor does not have an onsite ATR. Option 2 is also 
not applicable because there are no other ATRs in Oregon that have sufficiently similar 
characteristics as those exhibited by the study corridor. Therefore, the ATR Seasonal Trend method 
was used to determine the seasonal adjustment factor. Because OR 126W serves a mix of 
commuter traffic and coastal destination traffic,6 the average of these two traffic trend 
characteristics was used. The result for the June 2, 2011, intersection turn movement count date is 
a seasonal adjustment factor7 of 1.11. The raw system p.m. peak hour turn movement volumes 
were multiplied by this factor to determine the 30th HV. The raw system a.m. peak hour volumes 
were also multiplied by this factor to determine the corresponding a.m. peak hour design volumes 
to use for existing conditions analysis. 

Step 3 ­ Round and Balance Volumes
The 30th highest hourly volumes were rounded and balanced as appropriate based on direction 
provided in the APM. Rounding helps clarify that absolute precision is not expected for the traffic 

                                                            
4
  Analysis Procedures Manual, Oregon Department of Transportation, January 2011, page 4-1.
5
  All Traffic Data turn movement counts were collected on Thursday, June 2, 2011, from 6-9 a.m. and 3-6 p.m.
6
  The OR 126W study corridor between Veneta and Eugene serves commuter traffic for Veneta residents. In addition, it is the
primary coastal access route for the Eugene-Springfield metropolitan area, and the APM indicates that the Florence-Eugene
Highway (OR 126) is characterized by the "Coastal Designation" trend.
7
  The 2010 Seasonal Trend Table and associated calculations are provided in the appendix.
                                                                          OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                                        Transportation Conditions
                                                                                              September 23, 2011
                                                                                                       Page 8 of 23

volumes, and balancing ensures that reasonable progression on a corridor is being considered. 
However, for very low volume turn movements (i.e., less than three vehicles) rounding was not 
performed. Instead, the actual volumes are shown for clarity in reporting where turn movements 
actually occurred. Figure 5 provides the 30th HV (and the associated a.m. peak hour volumes) for 
the OR 126W study intersection that results from rounding and balancing.8 This figure also identifies 
the existing intersection traffic control and turn lane geometries. 

Average Annual Weekday Volumes
The average annual weekday traffic volumes for the OR 126W study corridor intersections were 
determined in a similar manner as the 30th HV. The only difference was that because June volumes 
are higher than average, the raw system p.m. peak hour turn movement volumes were multiplied 
by 0.95 factor (i.e., reduced by five percent).9 The raw system a.m. peak hour volumes were also 
multiplied by this factor to determine the corresponding a.m. peak hour design volumes. The 
volumes were then rounded and balanced as previously discussed. Figure 6 shows the resulting 
annual average weekday turn movement counts for each of the study intersections. 




                                                            
8
  Turn movement volumes at the driveways of less than 3 vehicles were not rounded to avoid either rounding down to zero or
inflating the volumes, due to the significant number of low volume driveways on the study corridor.
9
  The average annual weekday factor was also determined using the 2010 Seasonal Trend Table, with calculation provided in the
appendix.
1. Hwy 126 @ Huston Rd.                                   2. Driveway 1                                                         3. Driveway 2                             4. Driveway 3                                5. Driveway 4                                                        6. Driveway 5                       7. Driveway 6                            8. Driveway 7


              20

              10
              5                                  RT 20




                                                                                  1
                                                                                  1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                   1
             RT TH LT
                                                 TH 660                           RT LT                        RT 1                               RT LT          RT 0              RT LT                 RT 2                       RT LT                           RT 0                              RT LT            RT 0              RT LT             RT 2                    RT LT        RT 5
                                                 LT 145                                                        TH 825                                            TH 825                                  TH 820                                                     TH 820                                             TH 815                              TH 815                               TH 815
          15 LT                                                                     1 LT                                                            0 LT                              0 LT                                            0 LT                                                               0 LT                              1 LT                                      2 LT
         345 TH                              LT TH RT                             405 TH                                                          405 TH                            405 TH                                          405 TH                                                             405 TH                            405 TH                                    405 TH
          20 RT
                                             15
                                              5
                                             50




9. Driveway 8                                             10. Driveway 9                                                    11. Driveway 10                               12. Driveway 11                              13. Driveway 12                                                      14. Driveway 13                     15. Hwy 126 @ Ellmaker Rd.               16. Hwy 126 @ Shady Rest Dr.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          35
                                                                                                                                                  10




                                                                                                                                                                                   10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                  1
                                                                                  1
                       5
                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                   5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                   RT LT                         RT 1                             RT LT                        RT 1                               RT LT          RT 1              RT LT                 RT 10                      RT LT                          RT 15                               RT LT           RT 0               RT LT            RT 125                  RT LT       RT 0
                                                 TH 815                                                        TH 815                                            TH 805                                  TH 795                                                    TH 790                                              TH 800                              TH 790                              TH 895

                0 LT                                                                0 LT                                                           10 LT                             5 LT                                            15 LT                                                              1 LT                              20 LT                                      0 LT
              410 TH                                                              410 TH                                                          400 TH                           395 TH                                           385 TH                                                            390 TH                             370 TH                                    400 TH




17. Hwy 126 @ Lake Side Dr.                               18.              Hwy 126 @ Central Rd.                            19.               Hwy 126 @ Fisher Rd.        20. Hwy 126 @ Richmond St.                   21. Hwy 126 @ Ken Neilsen Rd.                                        22.   Hwy 126 @ Green Hill Rd.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     55
                                                                                                                                                  115
                                                                                 2
                                                                                 0
                                                                                 2
             0
             0
             0




                                                                                                               RT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                    RT 70




                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                RT 5
                                                                                                                                                  2



             RT TH LT                                                            RT TH LT                                                                                          RT LT                                                                                                             RT TH LT
                                                TH 890                                                         TH 875                             RT LT          RT 5                                    RT 0                                  TH 920                                                                  TH 905
                                                LT 1                                                           LT 155                                            TH 920                                  TH 930                                LT 5                                                                    LT 125

        0 LT                                                                2 LT                                                                   45 LT                             0 LT                                       435 TH                                                             25 LT
      400 TH                                                              385 TH                                                                  430 TH                           425 TH                                         0 RT             LT RT                                          410 TH           LT TH RT
                                            LT TH RT                                                       LT TH RT
        0 RT                                                               10 RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5 RT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   55
                                                                                                           20
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                           70
                                            0
                                            0
                                            1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEGEND
                       TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                  JEANS RD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     00 - Study Intersection                           - Driveway
                                                                                                                                                                                             FISHER RD
                                                                                                  CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - Lane Configuration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - Stop Sign




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                    ELLMAKER RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00 - 30th Highest Hour Traffic Volume
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - Traffic Signal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LT TH RT - Volume Turn Movement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Left Thru Right
                                           JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                              GOBLE LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21
                                                                                                                                                                                                19        20
                                                          1                             15                              16 17                18
       BROADWAY                           AVE                                                                                                                                                                  KEN NIELSEN RD                             22
              5TH ST




                                                                                  Driveways (#2 - #14)
                                                          HUSTON RD
    8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LA PORTE DR
                                                                                  Numbering from West to East                                                                                                                                                       CROW RD                                                                                                               Figure        5
                                          BOLTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2011 30TH HIGHEST HOUR TRAFFIC
                                                                                                                                CENTRAL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W RD



                                         CHENEY DR                                                                                                 CANTRELL RD                                              CANTRELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VOLUMES, LANE GEOMETRY,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
                                                                      BIGGS RD




                                                                                                               PERKINS RD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NO SCALE
1. Hwy 126 @ Huston Rd.                                          2. Driveway 1                                                         3. Driveway 2                                    4. Driveway 3                                  5. Driveway 4                                                          6. Driveway 5                             7. Driveway 6                             8. Driveway 7

              10 (15)

              25 (5)
              5 (5)




                                                                                          0 (1)
                                                                                          1 (1)




                                                                                                                                                          0 (2)
                                                                                                                                                          0 (0)




                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 (5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 (1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0 (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0 (0)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0 (5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0 (0)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 (1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0 (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0 (5)
                                                 RT 10 (15)
              RT TH LT                                                                   RT LT                                                            RT LT                                   RT LT                                            RT LT                                                                 RT LT                                    RT LT                                      RT LT
                                                 TH 200 (560)                                                         RT 0 (1)                                           RT 0 (0)                                       RT 1 (2)                                                     RT 0 (0)                                            RT 0 (0)                                  RT 1 (2)                               RT 0 (5)
                                                 LT 20 (125)                                                          TH 230 (705)                                       TH 230 (705)                                   TH 230 (700)                                                 TH 230 (700)                                        TH 230 (695)                              TH 230 (695)                           TH 230 (695)

    (10) 5 LT                                                                     (1) 0 LT                                                                (0) 0 LT                               (0) 5 LT                                          (0) 1 LT                                                             (0) 2 LT                                 (1) 0 LT                                    (2) 0 LT
 (295) 495 TH                                 LT TH RT                       (340) 670 TH                                                            (340) 670 TH                           (340) 665 TH                                      (340) 665 TH                                                         (340) 665 TH                             (340) 665 TH                                (340) 665 TH
   (20) 10 RT
                                               (10) 25
                                                (5) 10
                                              (40) 150




9. Driveway 8                                                    10. Driveway 9                                                      11. Driveway 10                                    12. Driveway 11                                13. Driveway 12                                                        14. Driveway 13                           15. Hwy 126 @ Ellmaker Rd.                16. Hwy 126 @ Shady Rest Dr.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15 (15)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  85 (30)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15 (10)
                                                                                                                                                          1 (10)




                                                                                                                                                                                                  10 (5)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10 (5)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1 (0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0 (0)
                    0 (5)
                    2 (0)




                                                                                         1 (1)
                                                                                         0 (1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0 (0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2 (1)
                                                                                                                                                          0 (0)




                                                                                                                                                                                                  5 (5)
                    RT LT                         RT 1 (1)                               RT LT                       RT 0 (1)                             RT LT          RT 0 (1)                 RT LT                 RT 10 (10)                 RT LT                         RT 5 (5)                                RT LT           RT 0 (0)                 RT LT            RT 10 (105)               RT LT       RT 0 (0)
                                                  TH 230 (695)                                                       TH 230 (695)                                        TH 230 (685)                                   TH 220 (680)                                             TH 215 (680)                                            TH 220 (685)                              TH 205 (675)                          TH 215 (765)

            (0) 5 LT                                                              (0) 1 LT                                                                (5) 2 LT                               (5) 5 LT                                       (10) 5 LT                                                              (1) 1 LT                              (15) 15 LT                                    (0) 0 LT
       (345) 660 TH                                                          (345) 660 TH                                                            (340) 660 TH                           (335) 655 TH                                     (330) 655 TH                                                         (335) 665 TH                             (315) 655 TH                               (345) 740 TH




17. Hwy 126 @ Lake Side Dr.                                      18.              Hwy 126 @ Central Rd.                              19.              Hwy 126 @ Fisher Rd.              20. Hwy 126 @ Richmond St.                     21. Hwy 126 @ Ken Neilsen Rd.                                          22.   Hwy 126 @ Green Hill Rd.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20 (50)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       60 (50)
                                                                                                                                                          40 (100)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5 (35)
              5 (0)
              0 (0)
              5 (0)




                                                                                        0 (2)
                                                                                        0 (0)
                                                                                        0 (2)




                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 (0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  5 (0)
                                                                                                                                                          2 (2)


                                                 RT 0 (5)                                                             RT 0 (2)                                                                                                                                                                                                           RT 30 (60)
              RT TH LT                                                                  RT TH LT                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RT TH LT
                                                 TH 210 (765)                                                         TH 215 (750)                        RT LT          RT 0 (5)                 RT LT                 RT 1 (0)                                    TH 190 (790)                                                         TH 185 (775)
                                                 LT 0 (1)                                                             LT 25 (130)                                        TH 195 (790)                                   TH 195 (795)                                LT 0 (5)                                                             LT 25 (105)

     (0) 2 LT                                                         (2) 0 LT                                                                        (40) 60 LT                                                                         (370) 815 TH                                                           (20) 25 LT
                                                                 (330) 740 TH                                                                                                                (0) 0 LT                                         (0) 1 RT                                                        (350) 800 TH
(345) 745 TH                                                                                                      LT TH RT                          (370) 815 TH                                                                                                    LT RT                                                           LT TH RT
                                             LT TH RT              (10) 10 RT                                                                                                           (365) 815 TH                                                                                                               (5) 2 RT
     (0) 0 RT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (0) 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (2) 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (5) 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (20) 35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (50) 125
                                                                                                                    (15) 5
                                                                                                                      (0) 0
                                                                                                                  (60) 125
                                             (0) 0
                                             (0) 0
                                             (1) 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEGEND
                        TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                         JEANS RD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       00 - Existing Study Intersection                        - Driveway
                                                                                                                                                                                                            FISHER RD
                                                                                                         CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               - Lane Configuration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               - Stop Sign




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                           ELLMAKER RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    00 (00) - Average Annual AM (PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volume
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               - Traffic Signal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LT TH RT - Volume Turn Movement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Left Thru Right
                                            JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                                            GOBLE LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21
                                                                                                                                                                                                               19         20
                                                                 1                             15                              16 17                18
        BROADWAY                           AVE                                                                                                                                                                                 KEN NIELSEN RD                               22
               5TH ST




                                                                                         Driveways (#2 - #14)
                                                                 HUSTON RD
     8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LA PORTE DR
                                                                                         Numbering from West to East                                                                                                                                                                  CROW RD                                                                                                                         Figure     6
                                           BOLTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2011 AVERAGE ANNUAL PEAK HOUR
                                                                                                                                       CENTRAL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W RD



                                          CHENEY DR                                                                                                        CANTRELL RD                                                     CANTRELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TRAFFIC VOLUMES, LANE GEOMETRY,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
                                                                             BIGGS RD




                                                                                                                       PERKINS RD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NO SCALE
                                                                                         OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                                                       Transportation Conditions
                                                                                                             September 23, 2011
                                                                                                                    Page 11 of 23

Intersection Performance
The performance of each OR 126W study corridor intersection under 30th HV and average annual 
conditions was evaluated and compared to the applicable volumetocapacity (v/c) mobility 
standard(s),10 as required by ODOT and Lane County. Table 2 shows the applicable mobility 
standards for the OR 126W study corridor intersections. The ODOT mobility standards are 
controlling because they require the intersection to operate at a lower v/c ratio. 

                                          Table 2: ODOT and Lane County Mobility Standardsa
                                                               Inside Veneta UGB,                                Inside Eugene UGB
                                                                                          Outside UGBs
                                                                Non-MPO with 55                                    and Central Lane
                                                                                      (i.e., all intersections
    Roadway Category                                             mph speed limit                                          MPO
                                                                                     between Huston Road
                                                                 (i.e. Huston Road                               (i.e. Green Hill Road
                                                                                     and Green Hill Road)
                                                                     intersection)                                    intersection)
    ODOT
        Freight Route on a Statewide                                  0.70                     0.70                      0.80
         Highwayb
        Stop-controlled side streetsc                                 0.80                     0.80                      N/A
    Lane County
        County Roads (worst                                           N/A                      0.80                      N/A
         movement)
    a
      ODOT operating standards obtained from August 2005 version of Table 6 in OHP, Lane County operating
      standards obtained from Table 6 of 2004 Lane County TSP.
    b
      At signalized intersections, these standards are to be applied to the intersection as a whole. At unsignalized
      intersections, these standards are applicable only to movements that are not required to stop.
    c
      For movements at unsignalized intersections that are required to stop or otherwise yield the right of way, the
      standards for District/Local Interest Roads shall be applied for areas within urban growth boundaries and a
      maximum v/c ratio of 0.80 shall be applied for areas outside of urban growth boundaries.
 
The operating performance of the study intersections were evaluated using SynchroTM software, 
which employs methodology from the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual.11 The traffic volumes, traffic 
control, and lane configurations shown in Figure 5 and Figure 6 were used in the analysis.12 Table 3 
(30th highest hour) and Table 4 (average annual weekday peak hours) provide the volumeto
capacity ratios for the public intersections (both signalized and unsignalized) as well as the private 
driveways located between Huston Road and Ellmaker Road. As shown, all intersections and 
driveways meet applicable mobility standards for both peak periods and under 30th HV and average 
annual peak hour traffic conditions. The only intersection approaching the mobility standard is OR 
126W/Green Hill Road, which the eastern most intersection, is the only signalized intersection, and 
is the only intersection inside the Eugene UGB. 
                                                            
10
   The volume-to-capacity (v/c) ratio is a decimal representation (between 0.00 and 1.00) of the proportion of capacity that is
being used (i.e., the saturation) at a turn movement, approach leg, or intersection. It is determined by dividing the peak hour
traffic volume by the hourly capacity of a given intersection or movement. A lower ratio indicates smooth operations and
minimal delays. As the ratio approaches 1.00, congestion increases and performance is reduced. If the ratio is greater than 1.00,
the turn movement, approach leg, or intersection is oversaturated and usually results in excessive queues and long delays.
11
   2000 Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board, Washington, D.C. 2000.
12
   Intersection signal timing for the OR 126W/Green Hill Road intersection was obtained from the City of Eugene and used in the
analysis.
                                                                        OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                                      Transportation Conditions
                                                                                            September 23, 2011
                                                                                                   Page 12 of 23

                  Table 3: Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance 30th highest hour
                                             Mobility Standardb                30th Highest Hour (v/c Ratio)c,d
    Intersectiona
                                           Mainline          Side Street         Mainline             Side Street
    Signalized
        (22) OR 126W/Green Hill Rd                    0.80 v/c                                0.79
    Unsignalized
        (1) OR 126W/Huston Rd              0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.42 (WB-T)           0.31 (NB-LTR)
        (15) OR 126W/Ellmaker Rd           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.49 (WB-T)           0.23 (SB-LR)
        (16) OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr         0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.56 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
        (17) OR 126W/Lake Side Dr          0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.00 (WB-LTR)          0.00 (NB-LTR)
        (18) OR 126W/Central Rd            0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.56 (WB-TR)          0.48 (NB-LTR)
        (19) OR 126W/Fisher Rd             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.57 (WB-TR)          0.42 (SB-LR)
        (20) OR 126W/Richmond St           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.59 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
        (21) OR 126W/Ken Nielsen Rd        0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.28 (EB-TR)          0.00 (NB-LR)
    Driveways
        (2) OR 126W/Driveway 1             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.52 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
        (3) OR 126W/Driveway 2             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.52 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
        (4) OR 126W/Driveway 3             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.51 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
        (5) OR 126W/Driveway 4             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.51 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
        (6) OR 126W/Driveway 5             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.51 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
        (7) OR 126W/Driveway 6             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.51 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
        (8) OR 126W/Driveway 7             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.51 (WB-TR)          0.03 (SB-LR)
        (9) OR 126W/Driveway 8             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.51 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
        (10) OR 126W/Driveway 9            0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.51 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
        (11) OR 126W/Driveway 10           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.50 (WB-TR)          0.03 (SB-LR)
        (12) OR 126W/Driveway 11           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.50 (WB-TR)          0.06 (SB-LR)
        (13) OR 126W/Driveway 12           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.50 (WB-TR)          0.07 (SB-LR)
        (14) OR 126W/Driveway 13           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.50 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    a
      Numbers correspond with Figure 6.
    b
      Mobility standards apply to full signalized intersections or to worst mainline and side street movements of
      unsignalized intersections and driveways.
    c
      The specific movements are identified in parenthesis. There are four approaches (NB = Northbound, SB =
      Southbound, EB = Eastbound, WB = Westbound) and three movements (L = Left, T = Through, R = Right). When
      approach lanes serve more than one movement (i.e., shared lanes), both movements are listed.
    d
      Bold Shaded values do not meet mobility standards.
 
                                                                         OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                                       Transportation Conditions
                                                                                             September 23, 2011
                                                                                                    Page 13 of 23

         Table 4: Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance Average Annual Weekday Peak
                                     Mobility Standardb             A.M. Peak Hour                   P.M. Peak Hour
    Intersectiona
                                    Mainline Side Street        Mainline       Side Street       Mainline        Side Street
    Signalized
    (22) OR 126W/Green Hill Rd              0.80 v/c                       0.70                             0.67
    Unsignalized
    (1) OR 126W/Huston Rd            0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c     0.36 (EB-T)    0.56 (NB-LTR)     0.35 (WB-T)     0.22 (NB-LTR)
    (15) OR 126W/Ellmaker Rd         0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c     0.48 (EB-T)     0.49 (SB-LR)     0.42 (WB-T)      0.16 (SB-LR)
    (16) OR 126W/Shady Rest          0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.16 (WB-TR) 0.00 (SB-LR)         0.48 (WB-TR)     0.00 (SB-LR)
    (17) OR 126W/Lake Side Dr        0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.00 (WB-TR) 0.04 (SB-LTR) 0.00 (WB-LTR) 0.00 (NB-LTR)
    (18) OR 126W/Central Rd          0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c     0.54 (EB-T)    0.51 (NB-LTR) 0.48 (WB-TR) 0.26 (NB-LTR)
    (19) OR 126W/Fisher Rd           0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c     0.59 (EB-T)     0.08 (SB-LR)     0.49 (WB-TR)     0.30 (SB-LR)
    (20) OR 126W/Richmond St         0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.14 (WB-TR) 0.03 (SB-LR)         0.50 (WB-TR)     0.00 (SB-LR)
    (21) OR 126W/Ken Nielsen         0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.56 (EB-TR) 0.02 (NB-LR)         0.24 (EB-TR)     0.00 (NB-LR)
    Driveways
    (2) OR 126W/Driveway 1           0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.17 (WB-TR) 0.01 (SB-LR)         0.44 (WB-TR)     0.01 (SB-LR)
    (3) OR 126W/Driveway 2           0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.17 (WB-TR) 0.01 (SB-LR)         0.44 (WB-TR)     0.01 (SB-LR)
    (4) OR 126W/Driveway 3           0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.17 (WB-TR) 0.00 (SB-LR)         0.44 (WB-TR)     0.02 (SB-LR)
    (5) OR 126W/Driveway 4           0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.17 (WB-TR) 0.00 (SB-LR)         0.44 (WB-TR)     0.00 (SB-LR)
    (6) OR 126W/Driveway 5           0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.17 (WB-TR) 0.01 (SB-LR)         0.43 (WB-TR)     0.01 (SB-LR)
    (7) OR 126W/Driveway 6           0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.17 (WB-TR) 0.01 (SB-LR)         0.44 (WB-TR)     0.01 (SB-LR)
    (8) OR 126W/Driveway 7           0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.17 (WB-TR) 0.03 (SB-LR)         0.44 (WB-TR)     0.03 (SB-LR)
    (9) OR 126W/Driveway 8           0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.17 (WB-TR) 0.01 (SB-LR)         0.44 (WB-TR)     0.01 (SB-LR)
    (10) OR 126W/Driveway 9          0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.17 (WB-TR) 0.00 (SB-LR)         0.44 (WB-TR)     0.01 (SB-LR)
    (11) OR 126W/Driveway 10         0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.17 (WB-TR) 0.00 (SB-LR)         0.43 (WB-TR)     0.03 (SB-LR)
    (12) OR 126W/Driveway 11         0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.17 (WB-TR) 0.04 (SB-LR)         0.43 (WB-TR)     0.04 (SB-LR)
    (13) OR 126W/Driveway 12         0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.16 (WB-TR) 0.08 (SB-LR)         0.43 (WB-TR)     0.05 (SB-LR)
    (14) OR 126W/Driveway 13         0.70 v/c    0.80 v/c    0.16 (WB-TR) 0.01 (SB-LR)         0.43 (WB-TR)     0.00 (SB-LR)
    a
      Numbers correspond with Figure 5.
    b
      Mobility standards apply to full signalized intersections or to worst mainline and side street movements of unsignalized
      intersections and driveways.
    c
      The specific movements are identified in parenthesis. There are four approaches (NB = Northbound, SB = Southbound,
      EB = Eastbound, WB = Westbound) and three movements (L = Left, T = Through, R = Right). When approach lanes
      serve more than one movement (i.e., shared lanes), both movements are listed.
    d
      Bold Shaded values do not meet mobility standards.
 
                                                                                   OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                                                 Transportation Conditions
                                                                                                       September 23, 2011
                                                                                                              Page 14 of 23

Turn Lane Needs
For most of its length through the study corridor, OR 126W is a twolane roadway; however, there 
are multiple intersections where OR 126W has turn lanes. At intersections where turn lanes do not 
currently exist, applicable criteria from ODOT's Analysis Procedures Manual (APM)13 were 
considered to determine whether additional left and right turn lanes are recommended.  

Due to the high peak hour traffic volumes and travel speeds (55 mph) on OR 126W, the ODOT 
criteria indicate that leftturn lanes are needed at movements where volumes exceed ten left
turning vehicles during the 30th highest hour. Table 5 lists the leftturn lane analysis results for the 
study intersections that do not currently have leftturn lanes. While the tenvehicle threshold is not 
met for any of the study intersections, the ODOT criteria do also indicate that leftturn lanes would 
be beneficial and may be considered at these locations due to the higher travel speeds and traffic 
volumes. 

               Table 5: Existing Left-Turn Lane Criteria (Intersections without Left-Turn Lanes)
                                                                      Left-Turn Vehicles
                                                                                                Criteria      Recommended
     Intersection                                     Movement       ODOT
                                                                                Turn Volume      Met?         Storage Length
                                                                    Threshold
     OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr                                EB Left      10            0         Considera              -
                                                                                                          a
     OR 126W/Lake Side Dr                                 EB Left      10            0         Consider               -
                                                                                                          a
     OR 126W/Richmond St                                  EB Left      10            0         Consider               -
                                                                                                          a
     OR 126W/Ken Nielson Rd                              WB Left       10            5         Consider               -
     a
         Through volumes and speeds are sufficiently high that even though there are less than ten turning vehicles,
         careful consideration be given to installing a left-turn lane due to the increased potential for accidents in the
         through lanes.
 
Leftturn lane analysis was also performed for the 13 driveways between Huston Road and Ellmaker 
Road and is provided in the appendix. Because two of the driveways (i.e., Driveways 10 and 12, 
which are approximately 230 feet and 720 feet, respectively, west of Ellmaker Road) have more 
than ten vehicles making leftturn movements, they both meet the turnlane criteria. Both of these 
driveways are along the section of OR 126W where it widens to accommodate the eastbound left
turn lane onto Ellmaker Road. Therefore, OR 126W is sufficiently wide to accommodate leftturn 
lanes at both driveways; however, current striping does not support the use of the center 
median/lane for vehicle storage at these driveways. Specifically, the eastbound leftturn lane for 
Ellmaker Road extends beyond Driveway 12, and there is a striped center median (i.e., two double
yellow lines) that extends farther west beyond Driveway 10. 

Rightturn lane analysis was performed for the study intersections that do not currently have 
standard rightturn lanes. Due to the high traffic volumes and travel speeds (55 mph) on OR 126W, 
the ODOT criteria indicate that rightturn lanes are needed at movements where volumes exceed 
approximately 20 rightturning vehicles during the 30th highest hour. Table 6 lists rightturn lane 

                                                            
13
     Analysis Procedures Manual, Oregon Department of Transportation, January 2011.
                                                                                     OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                                                   Transportation Conditions
                                                                                                         September 23, 2011
                                                                                                                Page 15 of 23

analysis results. The only location where the rightturn lane criteria are met is at the westbound 
rightturn movement at Ellmaker Road. This location currently has a flared approach and large turn 
radius that may partially serve as a rightturn lane, but it is recommended that a standard rightturn 
lane be provided. 

           Table 6: Existing Right-Turn Lane Criteria (Intersections without Right-Turn Lanes)
                                                                                 Right-Turn Vehicles               Criteria
     Intersection                                              Movement
                                                                          ODOT Threshold          Turn Volume       Met?

     OR 126W/Ellmaker Rd                                       WB Right         20                   125             Yes
     OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr                                     WB Right         20                    0               No
     OR 126W/Lake Side Dr                                      WB Right         20                    5               No
     OR 126W/Central Rd                                        EB Right         28                    10              No
                                                               WB Right         20                    2               No
     OR 126W/Fisher Rd                                         WB Right         20                    5               No
     OR 126W/Richmond St                                       WB Right         20                    0               No
     OR 126W/Ken Nielson Rd                                    EB Right         25                    0               No
 
Collision Analysis
Collision analysis was performed for the OR 126W study corridor using collision records provided by 
the ODOT Crash Analysis and Reporting Unit. The past 16 years of data (i.e., 1994 to 2009) were first 
reviewed to identify longterm trends as well as fatalities and pedestrian/bicycle collisions. Then, 
collision rates were analyzed for the most recent five years of available data (i.e., 2005 through 
2009), consistent with ODOT standard methodology. 

Between January 1, 1994, and December 31, 2009, 310 collisions were recorded on OR 126W 
between Huston Road and Green Hill Road. Therefore, over the last 16 years this six mile section of 
highway has averaged approximately 20 collisions per year. Eight of these collisions resulted in 
fatalities14 and 22 resulted in debilitating injuries (i.e., an average of two fatalities or debilitating 
injuries per year). Nearly half of the recorded collisions resulted in injuries, with two of these 
collisions involving pedestrians and three of them involving bicyclists; the bicycle and pedestrian 
collisions occurred near Ellmaker Road, Central Road, the scenic viewpoint between these two 
roads, and between Central Road and Fisher Road. 

Another helpful measure for identifying collision trends is the fiveyear rolling average. Figure 7 
shows the fiveyear rolling average for total collisions and fatalities/disabling injuries per year 
relative to the vehiclemiles traveled along the 6mile corridor. While vehiclemiles traveled has 
been relatively unchanged at approximately 80,000 vehiclemiles per day, the average number of 
collisions has been increasing since 2002 from a low of 13.2 collisions per year to a current high of 


                                                            
14
     There were nine total fatalities because one of the collisions resulted in two fatalities.
                                                              OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                            Transportation Conditions
                                                                                  September 23, 2011
                                                                                         Page 16 of 23

24.8 collisions per year. The average number of fatalities or debilitating injuries has been fairly 
steady between 1.8 and 3.0 fatalities or debilitating injuries per year. 




                                                                                                       VehicleMiles Traveled 
    Figure 7: OR 126W Collisions Relative to Vehicle-Miles Traveled (Five Year RollingAverage)
 
Figure 8 shows how the 310 collisions are distributed along the study corridor and also identifies 
the collision severity. As shown, five of the eight fatal collisions occurred in the eastern third of the 
study corridor. This same segment (i.e., from Green Hill Road to Fisher Road) also has a higher 
proportion of all collisions on the study corridor, with a particular spike in injury collisions near 
Green Hill Road and Fisher Road. There are also spikes in collisions at Central Road, Ellmaker Road, 
and Huston Road. These are expected locations due to the additional turning movements that occur 
at these locations. In addition, because of citizenreported collision information in Oregon, some 
ODOT collision records only specify the general milepoint; therefore, there appear to be spikes at 
these locations, but it is likely that these collisions should be more evenly distributed throughout 
the milepoint. 
COLLISION LOCATIONS (1994 TO 2009)

                                                                                                          JEANS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                            ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                          CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                         FISHER RD
                                                                               WIGGINS



                                                JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                  GOBLE LN
                                                                   WILDWOOD RD                                                                                                       JUDY

            BROADWAY                           AVE                                                                                                                                   KEN NIELSEN RD




                                                                                                                                             D
                  5TH ST




                                                                                                                                       RAL R
                                                                   HUSTON RD
         8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LA PORTE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                               OAK HILL                             CROW RD
                           TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                                   CENT
                                              BOLTON RD    JOSEE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W RD
                                             CHENEY DR                                                                                           CANTRELL RD                                CANTRELL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CRO
                                                                                BIGGS RD




                                                                                                                   PERKINS RD
                                                               0




                                                               5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MP 1 (Beltline)*
                                                              10
                                                                                                                      MP 49*
                                                                                   MP 48*




                                                              15




                                                                                                                                                               MP 51*
                                                              20
Legend




                                                                                                                                                                        MP 52*
 Collisions
                                                                                                                                                 MP 50*




                                                              25

     Fatal
     Injury
                                                              30

     Property Damage
                                                                                                                               Number of Collisions by 0.10 Mile Segement
                                                               *Note: Some ODOT collision records only specify the general milepoint.



8        OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
                                                                         OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                                       Transportation Conditions
                                                                                             September 23, 2011
                                                                                                    Page 18 of 23

Collision rates were also estimated for OR 126W, but only the past five years of collision data were 
evaluated due to changing traffic characteristics over time and to allow a comparison of collision 
rates on similar facilities throughout the State of Oregon. Table 7 lists the average collision rate for 
OR 126W between Veneta and Eugene, which is slightly higher than that of other similar highways 
in Oregon. The table also indicates that the average fatality and debilitating injury rate is lower than 
other similar highways in Oregon. However, as shown previously in Figure 9, the total number of 
collisions on OR 126W have been increasing since 2002. This is the opposite trend of the average 
collision rate for the state, which has been steadily dropping during the same time period. Another 
important item of note is that this segment of OR 126W does not currently have any top five or ten 
percent ODOT Safety Priority Index System (SPIS) locations identified (for the 2009 SPIS, which is 
based on collisions from 2007 to 2009). However, the intersection of OR 126/Green Hill Road has 
been identified as a top 15% SPIS site. 

          Table 7: OR 126W Collision Rates Compared with Statewide Averages (2005 to 2009)
    Facility                                         Total Collision Ratea,b      Fatal/Debilitating Injury Ratea,b
    OR 126W between Veneta and Eugene                  0.82 per million VMT           5.93 per 100 million VMT
    Oregon Principal Arterials (Statewide              0.67 per million VMT           8.44 per 100 million VMT
     Average)
    a
        Collision Rate = (collisions*1,000,000)/(years*365*segment length*AADT)
    b
        VMT = Vehicle Miles Traveled
 
Additional breakdowns of collisions were performed to evaluate the severity and type of collisions 
that occurred on the study corridor. Table 8 provides a breakdown by severity of the 124 collisions 
reported between 2005 and 2009. Two of the collisions were fatalities, and over half resulted in 
injuries. 

                             Table 8: Collision Severity on OR 126W (2005 to 2009)
                                                  Collisions (by Severity)                             Collisions
    Roadway
                            Fatal           Injury       Property Damage Only             Total         Per year

    OR 126W                   2              63                     59                     124             24.8
 
The study corridor collisions were also broken down by collision type for further evaluation. Figure 
9 is a pie chart showing the percent of each type of collision. On the study corridor, more than 60% 
of the collisions were intersection related and were classified as rearend, angle, or turning
movement collisions. The locations of the collisions (broken down by collision type) are provided in 
the appendix. 
                                                              OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                            Transportation Conditions
                                                                                  September 23, 2011
                                                                                         Page 19 of 23




                                                                                                
                         Figure 9: OR 126W Collision Types (2005 to 2009)
 
Another important consideration for the OR 126W study corridor is the effect that passing 
maneuvers have on corridor safety. While this information is not directly identified in the collision 
data, the collision records do indicate whether the driver drove left of the centerline (five collisions 
between 2005 and 2009) or performed improper overtaking (two collisions); these seven collisions 
comprise six percent of the total 124 collisions and include a fatality. 


Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities and Activity
As previously discussed, the segment of OR 126W between Huston Road and Green Hill Road is a 
rural corridor with no sidewalks or designated bicycle lanes and with shoulders that range from four 
to ten feet wideThese narrow shoulders force cyclists to travel immediately adjacent to and often 
on the edge of the vehicular travel lane. 

Some expected multimodal destinations include the county park (Perkins Peninsula County Park) 
located approximately two miles east of the Veneta city limits, the Fern Ridge Reservoir, and transit 
stops along the corridor. Pedestrian and bicycle traffic recorded during the weekday a.m. and p.m. 
peak motor vehicular periods are shown in Figure 10. As shown, few pedestrians and no bicyclists 
were observed during these periods. 
                                                                                     OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                                                   Transportation Conditions
                                                                                                         September 23, 2011
                                                                                                                Page 20 of 23




                                                                                                                               
                         Figure 10: Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities and Activity on OR 126W
 
Transit Service
Lane Transit District (LTD) provides public transit service between the EugeneSpringfield area and 
Veneta. LTD Route 93 route extends from Eugene Station on the east to West Lane Shopping Center 
in Veneta on the west, and Eugene Station has connections to downtown Eugene. Figure 11 shows 
Route 93, the locations of the bus stops, and the average weekday ons and offs that were collected 
during the month of May 2011. 

Table 9 lists the current Route 93 transit service. There are eight regularly scheduled weekday trips 
beginning at approximately 7:00 am and ending at 6:00 pm. There are two regularly scheduled 
Saturday trips. Productivity on rural routes is measured in terms of the number of customer 
boardings per round trip. LTD's current standard is 30 boardings per trip.  Route 93 averages 42 
boardings per trip within the study area. The greatest activity occurs in the vicinity of the OR 
126/Elmaker Road intersection, though most bus stop locations have an average of one or two daily 
boardings and alightings (i.e., ons and offs).15 

                                                    Table 9: Route 93 (Veneta) Transit Service
    Service Period                                             Hours of Operation                     Headway

    Monday-Friday
      A.M. Peak Period                                          6:40 to 11:00 a.m.           30, 60, or 120 min. (4 buses)
      P.M. Peak Period                                          1:40 to 7:00 p.m.              60 or 120 min. (4 buses)
    Saturday
      A.M. Peak Period                                          9:30 to 10:40 a.m.                      1 bus
      P.M. Peak Period                                          4:50 to 6:00 p.m.                       1 bus
 


                                                            
15
     Route 93 profile information for fall 2010.
                 TRANSIT ROUTES AND BOARDINGS
EN R




                                                                                                              CONRAD
       D




                                                                                                  CHERYL LN
                                                                                                                              JEANS RD      ZUMWALT
                                                                                                                                            PARK




                                                                              WINTER LN
  HORN RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUGENE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                                               ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                                             CHUKAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OAK HILL PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FISHER RD
             E    RD
         TTL
       SU
                                                                                                WIGGINS
                                                VENETA                                                                                                 PERKINS PENINSULA
                                                                                                                                                             PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GOBLE LN
                                                  JEANS RD
                                                                                          WILDWOOD RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                 210                                                                                            JUDY

                    BROADWAY                     AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KEN NIELSEN RD                                                                                                       126                                                                          ED CONE BLV
                                                                                                                                      126




                                                                                                                                                               D
                          5TH ST




                                                                                                                                                         RAL R
                 8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LA PORTE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OAK HILL                                 CROW RD
       10TH ST




                                                                                                                                                        CENT
                                                                                    HUSTON RD



                                                 BOLTON RD                  JOSEE


                                                CHENEY DR                                                                                                                   CANTRELL RD                                                                                                                                  CANTRELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FOREST MEADOWS LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OAK KNOLL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                               HALDERSON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CRO
                                                                                                                                         PERKINS RD
                                                                                                BIGGS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TODD WAY
                              TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HOPE LN
                                                                          INSET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MCTAVI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HAZEL DELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOTEN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                              Miles


                   11
                                                                                                                                                                                                JACK KELLY LN
                                                                                                                                                           0       0.25      0.5          1                                                                                        LUTHER LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2ND ST
                                                                                                  FLECK RD

                                                 OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BENSON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WESTWOOD CT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FERN MEADOWS LN
                                                                                                                                                                                               W BROADWAY AVE                                                   E BROADWAY AVE
                                                            MUIRLAND DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DUKHOBAR
                                                                                                                                                               PICKENS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LINDSAY LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5TH ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DUNHAM AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                7TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4TH ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MCCUTCHEON AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RUBY JEAN LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                              6TH ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HUNTER AVE
                 Legend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E HUNTER RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                    7TH ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CT
                                                 LTD Route 93 Service                                                                       Major Arterial




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CRYSTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NATALIE LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LLAMA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PINE ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A   N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3RD ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OC
                                                                                                                                            Minor Arterial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C
                                                        Bus Route                                                                                                                                                      WOODLAND AVE                                                                                            CORKY LN

                                                                                                                                            Collector                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DAHLIN DR
                                                 Bus Stops
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7TH ST
                                                 Average Weekday Boardings                                                                  Local




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LONGWOOD LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BOLTON RD                                                                                                                                                           JOSEE LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ERDMAN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CROSSWOOD LN
                                                 and Alightings, Average Count
                                                 May 2011                                                                                   Railroad                                                                                                                                                         HEAVENLY LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HUSTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JAKE ST
                                                        1                                                                                   Urban Growth Boundary                                                                                        COTTAGE CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STRIKE ST




                                                        2 -5                                                                                City Limit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHENEY DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BERRY LN                                                                                                   E BOLTON RD
                                                        6-9                                                                                                                                                                                  RD
                                                                                                                                            Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ERDMAN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TERRITORIAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHERRY LN                                                                                                                                                     MILO RD
                                                        10 - 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BLEK DR                                                                                                                                                                                     Miles
                                                        >14                                                                           #             Average Daily Ridership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OAK ISLAND DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                 0.125                            0.25

                                                        no boardings/alightings




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CINNABAR LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ANGEL CREEK DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TREK DR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IRENIC AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MUSE DR
                                                            OR 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Plan­ Existing 
                                                                          Transportation Conditions
                                                                                September 23, 2011
                                                                                       Page 22 of 23


Rail Facilities and Activity
The Coos Bay Rail Line (CBRL) runs parallel and in close proximity to OR 126W (less than 75 feet 
south of highway) for the segment between Huston Road and Richmond Street (approximately 4.5 
miles). The rail line has not experienced any activity since 2007 but is scheduled to resume 
operation by October 2011. There are presently two gated and four stop controlled railroad 
crossings along the OR 126W study corridor. Three of the crossings are along public streets and the 
remaining three are along private roads. Figure 34 shows the location and a picture of each of the 
six railroad crossings. 

All of the crossing locations, with the exception of Green Hill Road are within approximately 50 feet 
of the edge of the traveled way on OR 126W. At most, this allows for the storage of one or two 
vehicles between OR 126W and the railroad crossing. The Green Hill Road crossing is approximately 
onethird mile north of OR 126W; however, it is along a higher volume roadway. Lane County has 
received approval from the ODOT Rail Division to install a signalized crossing at the Green Hill Road 
atgrade railroad crossing.  
RAILROAD CROSSINGS




                                                                                                    CONRAD
                                                                                        CHERYL LN
                                                                                                                       JEANS RD




                                                           WINTER LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                                         ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                                       CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                    FISHER RD
                                                                                   WIGGINS
                                    VENETA

                                       JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                                          GOBLE LN
                                                                       WILDWOOD RD                                                                                                                              JUDY                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    126
                                                                                                                                    126
   BROADWAY                           AVE                                                                                                                                                                       KEN NIELSEN RD
                                                           1                                                       2                             3             4                                5




                                                                                                                                                       AL RD
         5TH ST
8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LA PORTE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CROW RD




                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OAK HILL




                                                                                                                                                     CENT
                                                                       HUSTON RD




                                     BOLTON RD         JOSEE


                                    CHENEY DR                                                                                                                      CANTRELL RD                                         CANTRELL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W RD
                                                                                                                                                                                 HALDERSON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUGENE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CRO
                                                                                    BIGGS RD




                                                                                                                                    PERKINS RD
                  TERRITORIAL HWY




12                                    OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
                                                                                                                                1                                                  2                                                 3
                                    Legend

                                                Private Crossing

                                                Public Crossing

                                                Railroad




                                                                                                                                4                                                  5                                                 6
Appendix
        24-Hour Tube Counts 

        Origin-Destination Surveys 

        A.M. Peak Hour Turn Movement Counts 

        P.M. Peak Hour Turn Movement Counts 

        16-Hour Turn Movement Counts 

        Seasonal Adjustment Factor 

        Level of Service Descriptions 

        HCM Intersection Analysis ­ 30th HV 

        HCM Intersection Analysis ­ Average Annual Weekday A.M./P.M.
        Peak Hours 

        ODOT Collision Data 

        LTD Route 93 Information 




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                        P09042019 
                                         24-Hour Tube Counts




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                   P09042019 
                                                                                                                                                     Page 1
                                                          All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                    15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                               Site Code: 23 Class
EB                                                                503-833-2740                                                      Hwy 126 E-O Huston Rd
  Start                Cars &     2 Axle            2 Axle    3 Axle   4 Axle   <5 Axl    5 Axle   >6 Axl   <6 Axl   6 Axle   >6 Axl         Not
  Time         Bikes   Trailers     Long   Buses     6 Tire   Single   Single   Double   Double    Double    Multi    Multi     Multi   Classed       Total
   6/2/11          2         13        3        0         4        0        0        0         1        0       0         0        0           0        23
    01:00          0         10        5        0         2        0        0        0         0        1       0         0        0           0        18
    02:00          3         12        7        0         3        0        0        0         0        0       0         0        0           0        25
    03:00          6         23       12        0         7        1        0        1         0        0       0         0        2           0        52
    04:00          3         41       21        0         7        0        0        1         0        0       0         0        0           0        73
    05:00         16         88       63        0       36         4        0        1         1        0       0         0        1           0       210
    06:00         34       218       112        2       58         9        0        4         2        2       0         0        0           0       441
    07:00         32       450       160        8       64        18        0        7         4        0       0         0        1           0       744
    08:00         34       312       124        5       38         9        0        4         1        0       0         0        1           0       528
    09:00         33       202       122        3       35        11        0        7         2        0       0         0        3           0       418
    10:00         22       242       101        4       46        15        2        4         3        1       0         0        2           0       442
    11:00         35       203       107        5       41         9        0        6         5        2       0         1        3           0       417
   12 PM          42       190       122       11       44        11        1        7         4        0       0         0        1           0       433
    13:00         31       201        90        6       45         8        0        7         4        1       0         0        2           0       395
    14:00         46       193       104        8       54        16        0       10         5        1       0         0        1           0       438
    15:00         32       192        95        6       45        13        0       11         4        1       0         0        0           0       399
    16:00         26       210        88        5       48        14        0        4         5        0       0         0        0           0       400
    17:00         29       194        70        3       35         5        0        4         2        0       0         0        0           0       342
    18:00         13       140        67        4       21         7        1        3         1        1       0         0        1           0       259
    19:00          9       110        46        2       18         2        0        2         0        1       0         0        0           0       190
    20:00         11       112        44        2       15         0        0        0         0        0       0         0        0           0       184
    21:00         13         72       34        1       11         2        0        1         1        0       0         0        2           0       137
    22:00          5         62       20        0         5        0        0        0         0        1       0         0        1           0        94
    23:00          5         34       11        0         5        0        0        0         1        1       0         0        2           0        59
    Total        482      3524      1628       75      687      154         4       84        46       13       0         1       23           0      6721
  Percent      7.2%     52.4%     24.2%     1.1%    10.2%      2.3%     0.1%     1.2%      0.7%     0.2%     0.0%     0.0%     0.3%        0.0%
 AM Peak       11:00     07:00     07:00   07:00     07:00    07:00    10:00     07:00    11:00     06:00            11:00     09:00
      Vol.        35       450       160        8       64        18        2        7         5        2                 1        3
 PM Peak       14:00     16:00     12:00   12:00     14:00    14:00    12:00     15:00    14:00     13:00                      13:00
      Vol.        46       210       122       11       54        16        1       11         5        1                          2

      Grand
                482      3524      1628       75      687       154        4       84        46       13        0        1        23          0       6721
       Total
     Percent   7.2%     52.4%     24.2%     1.1%    10.2%      2.3%     0.1%     1.2%     0.7%      0.2%     0.0%     0.0%     0.3%        0.0%
                                                                                                                                                    Page 2
                                                          All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                    15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                              Site Code: 23 Class
WB                                                                503-833-2740                                                     Hwy 126 E-O Huston Rd
  Start                Cars &     2 Axle            2 Axle   3 Axle   4 Axle   <5 Axl    5 Axle   >6 Axl   <6 Axl   6 Axle   >6 Axl         Not
  Time         Bikes   Trailers     Long   Buses    6 Tire   Single   Single   Double   Double    Double    Multi    Multi     Multi   Classed       Total
   6/2/11          1         35       13        1        2        0        0        1         1        0       0         0        1           0        55
    01:00          1         18        8        0        0        0        0        0         1        1       0         0        1           0        30
    02:00          0          9        2        1        1        0        0        0         0        0       0         0        0           0        13
    03:00          0          9        5        0        6        0        0        2         1        0       0         0        0           0        23
    04:00          0         16       10        0        4        0        0        1         2        1       0         0        0           0        34
    05:00          2         35       18        1        9        1        0        7         0        1       0         0        4           0        78
    06:00          4         52       24        5       14        3        0        3         4        2       0         0        0           0       111
    07:00          6       114        56        3       16        3        0        3         4        1       0         0        2           0       208
    08:00          4       151        77        7       33        3        0        6         4        2       0         0        1           0       288
    09:00          6       149        85       11       39        0        0        8         6        1       0         0        3           0       308
    10:00          5       190        85        3       29        2        0        5         1        0       0         0        3           0       323
    11:00          7       187       109        3       31        4        0        9         5        1       0         0        2           0       358
   12 PM           8       222       125        1       41        3        0       14         5        1       0         0        0           0       420
    13:00          5       268       103        6       45        1        0       13         2        2       0         0        1           0       446
    14:00          4       282       114        6       52        3        1        5         1        1       0         0        1           0       470
    15:00          9       361       153        3       58        1        0        6         2        0       0         0        0           0       593
    16:00         17       439       171        6       62        0        0        6         1        1       0         0        1           0       704
    17:00         12       477       172        3       71        0        2        7         1        0       0         0        0           0       745
    18:00          8       331       123        2       42        0        0        2         2        4       0         0        0           0       514
    19:00          3       196        75        2       32        0        0        5         0        1       0         0        1           0       315
    20:00          0       121        57        1       14        1        0        2         2        0       0         0        2           0       200
    21:00          2       131        45        1       18        0        0        5         0        0       0         0        0           0       202
    22:00          3         90       40        1        7        1        0        2         0        2       0         1        2           0       149
    23:00          0         57       17        1        5        0        0        1         2        1       0         1        2           0        87
    Total        107      3940      1687       68     631        26        3      113        47       23       0         2       27           0      6674
  Percent      1.6%     59.0%     25.3%     1.0%     9.5%     0.4%     0.0%     1.7%      0.7%     0.3%     0.0%     0.0%     0.4%        0.0%
 AM Peak       11:00     10:00     11:00   09:00    09:00    11:00              11:00    09:00     06:00                      05:00
      Vol.         7       190       109       11       39        4                 9         6        2                          4
 PM Peak       16:00     17:00     17:00   13:00    17:00    12:00    17:00     12:00    12:00     18:00            22:00     20:00
      Vol.        17       477       172        6       71        3       2        14         5        4                1         2

      Grand
                107      3940      1687       68      631       26        3      113        47       23        0        2        27          0       6674
       Total
     Percent   1.6%     59.0%     25.3%     1.0%     9.5%     0.4%     0.0%     1.7%     0.7%      0.3%     0.0%     0.0%     0.4%        0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 1
                                                                         All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                   15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                                   Site Code: 23
EB                                                                               503-833-2740                                                     Hwy 126 E-O Huston Rd
  Start          1       16           21         26           31        36      41      46       51       56       61      66      71      76              85th      95th
 Time           15       20           25         30           35        40      45      50       55       60       65      70      75    999    Total   Percent   Percent
  6/2/11         1        0            0          0            0         1       1       4        4        3        7       2       0       0     23         64        66
   01:00         0        0            0          0            0         0       0       1        2        8        5       1       1       0     18         64        70
   02:00         2        0            0          1            0         0       0       3        4        8        3       3       0       1     25         65        68
   03:00         3        0            0          0            0         0       0       1       11       20        7       9       1       0     52         66        69
   04:00         4        0            0          0            0         1       1       2       13       22       16      12       2       0     73         66        69
   05:00         5        0            0          0            0         1       4      10       34       65       64      26       1       0    210         65        68
   06:00         8        0            0          0            0         5       7      33       74      171      118      24       1       0    441         64        66
   07:00        10        0            0          1            1        13      13      58      247      298       91      10       0       2    744         60        64
   08:00        15        0            0          1            4         8      11      38      174      203       67       6       1       0    528         60        64
   09:00        21        2            0          0            4         5      14      56      113      150       49       4       0       0    418         60        64
   10:00         8        0            0          2            3         6       9      35      100      212       60       6       1       0    442         61        64
   11:00         1        1            0          0            1         6      10      39      103      202       50       3       1       0    417         60        64
  12 PM          9        4            4         10            7         8      13      48       92      172       56       4       4       2    433         61        64
   13:00        13        0            0          4            3         0       8      39      120      145       59       4       0       0    395         61        64
   14:00        18        1            0          1            0        12      10      34      127      176       54       3       1       1    438         60        64
   15:00        22        1            0          1            0         2      11      44       95      146       70       7       0       0    399         62        65
   16:00        16        0            1          0            1         5       9      26      125      170       38       6       2       1    400         60        64
   17:00        18        0            0          0            0         2       9      38      100      116       50       7       0       2    342         61        65
   18:00        24        0            0          0            1         2       8      21       56       73       63       9       1       1    259         63        65
   19:00         8        0            0          0            1         3       5      10       36       70       45      10       1       1    190         64        66
   20:00        11        0            0          1            0         3       2      14       41       75       30       6       1       0    184         62        65
   21:00         6        0            0          0            0         6       3      15       39       49       18       1       0       0    137         60        63
   22:00         2        0            0          0            0         1       5      13       15       33       24       1       0       0     94         63        64
   23:00         3        0            0          0            0         0       1       5       11       29        9       1       0       0     59         61        64
    Total      228        9            5         22           26        90     154     587     1736     2616     1053     165      19      11   6721
 Percent     3.4%     0.1%         0.1%       0.3%         0.4%      1.3%    2.3%    8.7%    25.8%    38.9%    15.7%    2.5%    0.3%    0.2%
AM Peak      09:00    09:00                   10:00        08:00     07:00   09:00   07:00    07:00    07:00    06:00   05:00   04:00   07:00   07:00
     Vol.       21        2                       2            4        13      14      58      247      298      118      26       2       2     744
PM Peak      18:00    12:00        12:00      12:00        12:00     14:00   12:00   12:00    14:00    14:00    15:00   19:00   12:00   12:00   14:00
     Vol.       24        4            4         10            7        12      13      48      127      176       70      10       4       2     438
  Grand
              228          9           5         22           26       90     154     587     1736     2616     1053     165      19      11    6721
    Total
 Percent     3.4%      0.1%         0.1%        0.3%       0.4%      1.3%    2.3%    8.7%    25.8%    38.9%    15.7%    2.5%    0.3%    0.2%
                               15th Percentile :          50 MPH
                               50th Percentile :          56 MPH
                               85th Percentile :          62 MPH
                               95th Percentile :          65 MPH

Statistics             10 MPH Pace Speed :             51-60 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                  4352
                            Percent in Pace :               64.8%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                   3864
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                57.5%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :                54 MPH
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 2
                                                                         All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                   15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                                   Site Code: 23
WB                                                                               503-833-2740                                                     Hwy 126 E-O Huston Rd
  Start          1       16           21         26           31        36      41       46       51       56      61      66      71      76              85th      95th
  Time          15       20           25         30           35        40      45       50       55       60      65      70      75    999    Total   Percent   Percent
   6/2/11        0        0            0          0            0         0       2        8       13       23       9       0       0       0     55         61        63
    01:00        1        0            0          0            0         0       1        4       10        9       3       2       0       0     30         60        63
    02:00        1        0            0          0            1         0       0        0        4        3       4       0       0       0     13         62        63
    03:00        0        0            0          0            0         0       1        2        3        6      11       0       0       0     23         64        65
    04:00        1        0            0          0            0         0       0        7       10        9       6       0       1       0     34         61        64
    05:00        4        0            0          0            0         1       1        4       16       40      10       2       0       0     78         60        64
    06:00        2        0            1          0            0         0       1       10       22       61       8       2       2       2    111         60        65
    07:00       12        0            0          0            0         0       2       13       59       88      27       4       1       2    208         61        65
    08:00        7        0            0          0            1         1      11       50       86      101      29       1       1       0    288         60        63
    09:00       11        0            0          1            2         4       3       37      129      100      18       2       1       0    308         59        62
    10:00        9        0            0          0            1         1      10       39      115      123      23       1       0       1    323         60        62
    11:00        5        1            1          0            2         6      15       45      145      110      27       1       0       0    358         59        62
   12 PM         8        1            1          1            2         3      10       52      171      133      36       1       1       0    420         60        63
    13:00       12        0            0          1            0         4       8       58      200      141      22       0       0       0    446         59        60
    14:00       18        0            0          1            0         3      13       77      161      179      15       2       1       0    470         59        60
    15:00       20        1            0          1            1         6      19       81      292      157      12       1       2       0    593         58        60
    16:00       11        1            2          0            0         4      30      101      296      218      37       2       0       2    704         59        61
    17:00        9        0            0          0            3         6      37      115      342      202      29       0       0       2    745         58        60
    18:00        7        0            1          1            0         0       6       35      188      221      49       6       0       0    514         60        63
    19:00        6        1            0          0            0         0       4        8       61      136      94       4       1       0    315         63        65
    20:00        3        0            0          0            0         0       2       23       71       71      28       2       0       0    200         60        64
    21:00        2        0            1          0            0         2       8       38       79       66       6       0       0       0    202         59        60
    22:00        0        0            0          0            0         0       3       28       56       51       9       2       0       0    149         59        62
    23:00        1        0            0          0            0         1       1        8       26       41       7       1       0       1     87         60        63
    Total      150        5            7          6           13        42     188      843     2555     2289     519      36      11      10   6674
 Percent     2.2%     0.1%         0.1%       0.1%         0.2%      0.6%    2.8%    12.6%    38.3%    34.3%    7.8%    0.5%    0.2%    0.1%
AM Peak      07:00    11:00        06:00      09:00        09:00     11:00   11:00    08:00    11:00    10:00   08:00   07:00   06:00   06:00   11:00
     Vol.       12        1            1          1            2         6      15       50      145      123      29       4       2       2     358
PM Peak      15:00    12:00        16:00      12:00        17:00     15:00   17:00    17:00    17:00    18:00   19:00   18:00   15:00   16:00   17:00
     Vol.       20        1            2          1            3         6      37      115      342      221      94       6       2       2     745
   Grand
              150          5           7          6           13       42     188      843     2555     2289     519      36      11      10    6674
    Total
 Percent     2.2%      0.1%         0.1%        0.1%       0.2%      0.6%    2.8%    12.6%    38.3%    34.3%    7.8%    0.5%    0.2%    0.1%
                               15th Percentile :          49 MPH
                               50th Percentile :          55 MPH
                               85th Percentile :          60 MPH
                               95th Percentile :          63 MPH

Statistics             10 MPH Pace Speed :             51-60 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                  4844
                            Percent in Pace :               72.6%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                   2865
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                42.9%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :                54 MPH
                                                                                                                                                   Page 1
                                                          All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                    15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                             Site Code: 24 Class
EB                                                                503-833-2740                                                    Hwy 126 W-O Central Rd
  Start                Cars &     2 Axle            2 Axle   3 Axle   4 Axle   <5 Axl    5 Axle   >6 Axl   <6 Axl   6 Axle   >6 Axl         Not
  Time         Bikes   Trailers     Long   Buses    6 Tire   Single   Single   Double   Double    Double    Multi    Multi     Multi   Classed      Total
   6/2/11          1         19        2        0        3        0        0        0         0        1       0         0        0           0       26
    01:00          0         10        5        0        0        0        0        0         0        0       0         0        0           0       15
    02:00          0         17        2        0        1        0        0        0         1        0       0         0        1           0       22
    03:00          1         25        9        0        3        1        0        1         0        1       0         0        1           0       42
    04:00          5         51       16        0        3        1        0        2         0        0       0         0        0           0       78
    05:00          9       137        52        0       19        2        0        1         0        1       0         0        2           0      223
    06:00          8       314       105        1       40        2        0        4         2        1       0         0        1           0      478
    07:00          9       574       157        3       50        6        0        4         4        2       0         0        1           0      810
    08:00          6       406       103        2       23        4        1        4         0        0       0         0        1           0      550
    09:00          4       279       113        2       20        4        0        7         3        0       0         0        2           0      434
    10:00          4       305       124        3       24        6        1        5         4        1       0         0        3           0      480
    11:00          9       299        85        2       23        3        0        3         7        1       0         0        1           0      433
   12 PM           5       273       103        4       30        8        1        8         6        0       0         0        1           0      439
    13:00          6       268        78        5       26        8        0        7         3        0       0         0        3           0      404
    14:00          8       294       106        3       29        9        1       11         4        4       0         1        0           0      470
    15:00          8       264        88        3       30        7        1       10         3        1       0         0        0           0      415
    16:00         10       254       100        3       27        5        0        5         0        1       0         0        0           0      405
    17:00         12       213        79        3       21        3        0        5         1        0       0         1        0           0      338
    18:00          7       195        49        4        8        2        0        1         1        1       0         0        0           0      268
    19:00          1       135        33        3        7        2        0        2         0        1       1         0        0           0      185
    20:00          2       106        40        2        6        1        0        0         0        0       0         0        1           0      158
    21:00          0         87       29        1        5        0        0        2         1        2       1         0        0           0      128
    22:00          2         70       17        0        2        1        0        0         1        1       0         0        0           0       94
    23:00          0         32       10        1        5        1        0        0         2        0       0         0        0           0       51
    Total        117      4627      1505       45     405        76        5       82        43       19       2         2       18           0     6946
  Percent      1.7%     66.6%     21.7%     0.6%     5.8%     1.1%     0.1%     1.2%      0.6%     0.3%     0.0%     0.0%     0.3%        0.0%
 AM Peak       05:00     07:00     07:00   07:00    07:00    07:00    08:00     09:00    11:00     07:00                      10:00
      Vol.         9       574       157        3       50        6        1        7         7        2                          3
 PM Peak       17:00     14:00     14:00   13:00    12:00    14:00    12:00     14:00    12:00     14:00   19:00    14:00     13:00
      Vol.        12       294       106        5       30        9        1       11         6        4       1        1         3

      Grand
                117      4627      1505       45      405       76        5       82        43       19        2        2        18          0      6946
       Total
     Percent   1.7%     66.6%     21.7%     0.6%     5.8%     1.1%     0.1%     1.2%     0.6%      0.3%     0.0%     0.0%     0.3%       0.0%
                                                                                                                                                   Page 2
                                                          All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                    15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                             Site Code: 24 Class
WB                                                                503-833-2740                                                    Hwy 126 W-O Central Rd
  Start                Cars &     2 Axle            2 Axle   3 Axle   4 Axle   <5 Axl    5 Axle   >6 Axl   <6 Axl   6 Axle   >6 Axl         Not
  Time         Bikes   Trailers     Long   Buses    6 Tire   Single   Single   Double   Double    Double    Multi    Multi     Multi   Classed      Total
   6/2/11          2         38       11        1        5        0        0        1         1        0       0         0        1           0       60
    01:00          0         18        6        1        2        0        0        0         1        0       0         0        1           0       29
    02:00          0         13        3        0        1        0        0        0         0        0       0         0        0           0       17
    03:00          1         11        7        0        3        0        0        2         1        0       0         0        0           0       25
    04:00          1         14        8        1        5        0        0        3         3        0       0         0        0           0       35
    05:00          1         32       17        2       14        0        0        6         0        1       0         0        4           0       77
    06:00          2         53       25        4       11        1        0        3         6        3       0         0        1           0      109
    07:00          7       133        50        4       13        0        0        2         6        0       0         0        1           0      216
    08:00          4       157        55        8       30        4        1        1         3        2       0         0        2           0      267
    09:00          6       159        84       10       32        2        0        8         8        1       0         0        4           0      314
    10:00          4       190        82        3       27        0        0        5         3        1       0         0        2           0      317
    11:00          6       188       120        3       28        3        0        8         4        1       0         0        1           0      362
   12 PM           6       246       119        1       46        1        0       17         4        2       0         0        0           0      442
    13:00         11       270       102        7       46        1        0       14         3        1       0         0        0           0      455
    14:00          5       317       120        8       53        5        0        3         2        1       0         0        1           0      515
    15:00          5       373       170        3       72        2        0        6         1        0       0         0        0           0      632
    16:00          9       478       203        4       72        2        0        8         1        0       0         0        1           0      778
    17:00         13       524       202        3       81        3        0        7         2        1       0         0        0           0      836
    18:00          4       379       124        2       46        3        0        2         2        4       0         0        0           0      566
    19:00          2       218        80        4       37        0        0        5         2        1       1         0        1           0      351
    20:00          2       151        65        0       15        0        0        2         2        1       0         1        1           0      240
    21:00          1       125        55        1       14        0        1        5         1        0       0         0        1           0      204
    22:00          5         91       29        1       13        0        0        2         1        2       0         0        2           0      146
    23:00          1         65       12        1        7        0        0        1         1        2       0         0        3           0       93
    Total         98      4243      1749       72     673        27        2      111        58       24       1         1       27           0     7086
  Percent      1.4%     59.9%     24.7%     1.0%     9.5%     0.4%     0.0%     1.6%      0.8%     0.3%     0.0%     0.0%     0.4%        0.0%
 AM Peak       07:00     10:00     11:00   09:00    09:00    08:00    08:00     09:00    09:00     06:00                      05:00
      Vol.         7       190       120       10       32        4        1        8         8        3                          4
 PM Peak       17:00     17:00     16:00   14:00    17:00    14:00    21:00     12:00    12:00     18:00   19:00    20:00     23:00
      Vol.        13       524       203        8       81        5        1       17         4        4       1        1         3

      Grand
                 98      4243      1749       72      673       27        2      111        58       24        1        1        27          0      7086
       Total
     Percent   1.4%     59.9%     24.7%     1.0%     9.5%     0.4%     0.0%     1.6%     0.8%      0.3%     0.0%     0.0%     0.4%       0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 1
                                                                         All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                   15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                             Site Code: 24 Speed
EB                                                                               503-833-2740                                                    Hwy 126 W-O Central Rd
  Start          1       16           21         26           31        36      41      46       51       56       61      66      71      76              85th      95th
 Time           15       20           25         30           35        40      45      50       55       60       65      70      75    999    Total   Percent   Percent
  6/2/11         2        0            0          0            0         0       4       4        3        9        4       0       0       0     26         60        63
   01:00         0        0            0          0            0         0       0       0        3        6        6       0       0       0     15         63        64
   02:00         2        0            0          0            0         0       1       2        7        7        0       3       0       0     22         60        67
   03:00         2        0            0          0            0         0       1       1       14       13        6       5       0       0     42         64        68
   04:00         2        2            0          0            2         0       1       3       21       24       18       4       0       1     78         63        66
   05:00        15        0            0          0            0         0       0       7       50       92       53       5       1       0    223         63        65
   06:00        22        0            0          1            0         2       0       3       50      263      122      12       2       1    478         63        65
   07:00        26        0            0          0            1         3       7      31      241      375      118       7       1       0    810         61        64
   08:00        20        0            1          0            0         0       2      32      146      253       85       9       2       0    550         61        64
   09:00        24        0            0          0            0         3       4      25      141      183       48       5       0       1    434         60        64
   10:00        23        0            0          0            0        11      16      55      172      165       35       1       1       1    480         59        62
   11:00        25        0            0          0            1         2       1      23      135      185       53       7       0       1    433         60        64
  12 PM         23        0            0          2            0         1       9      34      168      154       45       3       0       0    439         60        63
   13:00        23        1            0          0            0         3       4      16      106      182       63       5       1       0    404         61        64
   14:00        29        0            0          1            0         3       3      28      183      173       45       4       0       1    470         60        63
   15:00        38        1            0          0            1         2       3      30      134      165       38       3       0       0    415         60        63
   16:00        26        0            0          1            1         6       2      23      117      168       57       4       0       0    405         60        64
   17:00        25        1            0          0            0         4       7      42       95      115       42       7       0       0    338         60        64
   18:00        15        0            0          0            0         1       1      16       72      112       43       6       1       1    268         62        65
   19:00         8        1            1          0            0         2       1       7       47       87       27       4       0       0    185         61        64
   20:00         7        0            0          0            0         0       1       8       45       73       21       3       0       0    158         60        64
   21:00         8        0            0          0            0         0       0      10       42       53       13       2       0       0    128         60        63
   22:00         3        0            0          1            0         3       3       2       27       40       11       3       0       1     94         61        65
   23:00         3        0            0          0            0         0       1       4       12       24        5       2       0       0     51         60        64
    Total      371        6            2          6            6        46      72     406     2031     2921      958     104       9       8   6946
 Percent     5.3%     0.1%         0.0%       0.1%         0.1%      0.7%    1.0%    5.8%    29.2%    42.1%    13.8%    1.5%    0.1%    0.1%
AM Peak      07:00    04:00        08:00      06:00        04:00     10:00   10:00   10:00    07:00    07:00    06:00   06:00   06:00   04:00   07:00
     Vol.       26        2            1          1            2        11      16      55      241      375      122      12       2       1     810
PM Peak      15:00    13:00        19:00      12:00        15:00     16:00   12:00   17:00    14:00    13:00    13:00   17:00   13:00   14:00   14:00
     Vol.       38        1            1          2            1         6       9      42      183      182       63       7       1       1     470
  Grand
              371          6           2          6            6       46      72     406     2031     2921      958     104       9       8    6946
    Total
 Percent     5.3%      0.1%         0.0%        0.1%       0.1%      0.7%    1.0%    5.8%    29.2%    42.1%    13.8%    1.5%    0.1%    0.1%
                               15th Percentile :          51 MPH
                               50th Percentile :          56 MPH
                               85th Percentile :          61 MPH
                               95th Percentile :          64 MPH

Statistics             10 MPH Pace Speed :             51-60 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                  4952
                            Percent in Pace :               71.3%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                   4000
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                57.6%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :                54 MPH
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 2
                                                                         All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                   15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                             Site Code: 24 Speed
WB                                                                               503-833-2740                                                    Hwy 126 W-O Central Rd
  Start          1       16           21         26           31        36      41      46       51       56       61      66      71      76              85th      95th
  Time          15       20           25         30           35        40      45      50       55       60       65      70      75    999    Total   Percent   Percent
   6/2/11        4        0            0          0            0         0       1       0       14       19       19       3       0       0     60         64        65
    01:00        0        0            0          0            0         0       0       0        5        9       10       3       1       1     29         66        75
    02:00        1        0            0          0            0         0       0       0        5        7        2       1       1       0     17         61        70
    03:00        1        0            0          0            0         0       0       0        6        7       11       0       0       0     25         63        65
    04:00        2        0            0          0            0         1       0       0        1       14       13       2       2       0     35         65        70
    05:00        2        0            0          0            0         0       0       1        8       27       31       7       0       1     77         65        67
    06:00       13        0            0          0            0         0       1       6       15       47       24       2       1       0    109         63        65
    07:00        9        1            0          0            0         1       0       3       46       87       61       7       0       1    216         63        65
    08:00       13        0            1          0            0         1       3       7       44      142       54       2       0       0    267         62        64
    09:00       19        0            1          0            0         0       2       9       73      149       51       7       2       1    314         62        65
    10:00       21        0            0          1            2         1       5      18       63      144       59       3       0       0    317         62        64
    11:00       21        0            0          0            1         0       2       6       76      164       78      14       0       0    362         63        65
   12 PM        22        1            1          1            0         0       4      20      100      216       73       3       1       0    442         61        64
    13:00       16        0            0          1            0         2       8      13       85      224       97       9       0       0    455         62        65
    14:00       20        0            2          0            0         0       1      13      123      256       90      10       0       0    515         62        65
    15:00       42        0            0          1            0         4      10      17      147      286      116       7       1       1    632         62        64
    16:00       39        0            1          1            0         7      11      41      175      329      164       9       1       0    778         62        65
    17:00       35        0            0          0            0         6       9      29      240      337      167      11       1       1    836         62        65
    18:00       14        0            0          0            0         1       3      13      116      276      130      13       0       0    566         63        65
    19:00       15        0            0          0            0         0       1       2       27      147      125      30       3       1    351         65        68
    20:00       10        0            0          0            1         1       4       7       32      105       72       5       3       0    240         63        65
    21:00        3        0            0          0            0         0       7      13       54       92       29       5       1       0    204         61        65
    22:00        5        0            0          0            1         0       0       4       26       67       34       9       0       0    146         63        66
    23:00        6        0            0          0            0         0       1       0       23       33       25       4       0       1     93         64        65
    Total      333        2            6          5            5        25      73     222     1504     3184     1535     166      18       8   7086
 Percent     4.7%     0.0%         0.1%       0.1%         0.1%      0.4%    1.0%    3.1%    21.2%    44.9%    21.7%    2.3%    0.3%    0.1%
AM Peak      10:00    07:00        08:00      10:00        10:00     04:00   10:00   10:00    11:00    11:00    11:00   11:00   04:00   01:00   11:00
     Vol.       21        1            1          1            2         1       5      18       76      164       78      14       2       1     362
PM Peak      15:00    12:00        14:00      12:00        20:00     16:00   16:00   16:00    17:00    17:00    17:00   19:00   19:00   15:00   17:00
     Vol.       42        1            2          1            1         7      11      41      240      337      167      30       3       1     836
   Grand
              333          2           6          5            5       25      73     222     1504     3184     1535     166      18       8    7086
    Total
 Percent     4.7%      0.0%         0.1%        0.1%       0.1%      0.4%    1.0%    3.1%    21.2%    44.9%    21.7%    2.3%    0.3%    0.1%
                               15th Percentile :          52 MPH
                               50th Percentile :          58 MPH
                               85th Percentile :          63 MPH
                               95th Percentile :          65 MPH

Statistics             10 MPH Pace Speed :             56-65 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                  4719
                            Percent in Pace :               66.6%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                   4911
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                69.3%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :                55 MPH
                                                                                                                                                    Page 1
                                                          All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                    15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                              Site Code: 25 Class
EB                                                                503-833-2740                                                     Hwy 126 W-O Fisher Rd
  Start                Cars &     2 Axle            2 Axle   3 Axle   4 Axle   <5 Axl    5 Axle   >6 Axl   <6 Axl   6 Axle   >6 Axl         Not
  Time         Bikes   Trailers     Long   Buses    6 Tire   Single   Single   Double   Double    Double    Multi    Multi     Multi   Classed       Total
   6/2/11          0         21        1        1        4        1        0        0         0        0       0         0        1           0        29
    01:00          0         12        6        0        1        0        0        0         0        0       0         0        1           0        20
    02:00          0         16        5        0        1        0        0        0         0        1       0         0        1           0        24
    03:00          1         26        9        0        5        1        0        1         1        0       0         0        1           0        45
    04:00          0         62       20        0        5        0        0        1         1        0       0         0        0           0        89
    05:00          3       154        71        3       20        1        0        0         0        1       0         0        1           0       254
    06:00          4       334       131        0       77        0        0        6         1        0       0         0        1           0       554
    07:00          5       626       209        4       73        3        0        4         3        0       0         0        4           0       931
    08:00          4       433       141        4       46        1        0        7         3        0       0         1        0           0       640
    09:00          3       308       123        2       41        2        0        7         2        1       0         0        4           0       493
    10:00          0       300       158        5       43        4        1        6         3        1       0         0        2           0       523
    11:00          2       310       113        6       40        3        0        3         5        2       0         1        1           0       486
   12 PM           2       274       132        5       46        2        1       11         4        0       0         0        2           0       479
    13:00          7       254       108        8       38        4        0        9         1        1       0         0        3           0       433
    14:00         10       282       135        7       61        6        0       10         3        3       0         0        0           0       517
    15:00          5       302       111        5       44        1        0       15         3        1       0         0        1           0       488
    16:00          4       266       114        6       48        7        0        7         3        0       0         0        2           0       457
    17:00          7       236       103        4       34        4        0        3         2        0       1         1        1           0       396
    18:00          4       193        70        4       22        1        0        3         2        0       0         1        0           0       300
    19:00          1       143        48        3       11        1        0        3         0        2       0         0        1           0       213
    20:00          1       105        38        5       17        0        0        0         0        0       0         0        2           0       168
    21:00          3         85       33        0       10        0        0        2         1        0       1         0        2           0       137
    22:00          1         73       20        0        7        0        0        0         0        1       0         0        2           0       104
    23:00          0         34       12        0        5        0        0        0         2        1       0         0        3           0        57
    Total         67      4849      1911       72     699        42        2       98        40       15       2         4       36           0      7837
  Percent      0.9%     61.9%     24.4%     0.9%     8.9%     0.5%     0.0%     1.3%      0.5%     0.2%     0.0%     0.1%     0.5%        0.0%
 AM Peak       07:00     07:00     07:00   11:00    06:00    10:00    10:00     08:00    11:00     11:00            08:00     07:00
      Vol.         5       626       209        6       77        4        1        7         5        2                 1        4
 PM Peak       14:00     15:00     14:00   13:00    14:00    16:00    12:00     15:00    12:00     14:00   17:00    17:00     13:00
      Vol.        10       302       135        8       61        7        1       15         4        3       1         1        3

      Grand
                 67      4849      1911       72      699       42        2       98        40       15        2        4        36          0       7837
       Total
     Percent   0.9%     61.9%     24.4%     0.9%     8.9%     0.5%     0.0%     1.3%     0.5%      0.2%     0.0%     0.1%     0.5%        0.0%
                                                                                                                                                    Page 2
                                                          All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                    15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                              Site Code: 25 Class
WB                                                                503-833-2740                                                     Hwy 126 W-O Fisher Rd
  Start                Cars &     2 Axle            2 Axle   3 Axle   4 Axle   <5 Axl    5 Axle   >6 Axl   <6 Axl   6 Axle   >6 Axl         Not
  Time         Bikes   Trailers     Long   Buses    6 Tire   Single   Single   Double   Double    Double    Multi    Multi     Multi   Classed       Total
   6/2/11          1         37       16        0        3        0        0        1         0        2       0         1        0           0        61
    01:00          0         21        7        1        1        0        0        0         1        0       0         0        1           0        32
    02:00          1         11        9        0        2        0        0        1         0        0       0         0        0           0        24
    03:00          0         12        5        0        5        0        0        2         0        1       0         0        0           0        25
    04:00          0         20        9        1        7        0        0        2         3        0       0         0        0           0        42
    05:00          1         35       25        2       15        0        0        6         0        0       0         0        4           0        88
    06:00          2         83       35        4        9        1        0        2         6        3       0         0        1           0       146
    07:00          1       155        57        4       17        5        0        2         1        0       0         0        2           0       244
    08:00          2       164        68       10       31        4        0        3         3        4       0         0        1           0       290
    09:00          4       181        94        8       35        2        0        8         8        0       0         0        5           0       345
    10:00          2       205        92        3       23        1        0        5         0        1       0         1        2           0       335
    11:00          2       226       117        4       28        2        1       10         5        2       0         0        1           0       398
   12 PM           7       293       118        1       43        2        0       20         4        0       0         0        0           0       488
    13:00         11       321       118        8       45        0        0       10         2        3       0         0        1           0       519
    14:00         11       359       108        4       52        2        0        5         3        1       0         0        1           0       546
    15:00          9       457       195        3       69        0        0        6         3        1       0         0        0           0       743
    16:00         25       554       195        5       74        0        0        7         0        0       0         0        1           0       861
    17:00         11       656       227        4       71        2        0       11         1        0       0         0        1           0       984
    18:00          7       430       128        2       48        2        0        2         3        4       0         0        0           0       626
    19:00          3       266        88        3       40        0        0        5         3        2       0         2        0           0       412
    20:00          3       190        72        0       13        0        0        2         2        1       0         0        2           0       285
    21:00          1       159        57        0       17        0        1        7         0        1       0         0        1           0       244
    22:00          5       104        41        1        8        0        0        4         0        0       0         0        2           0       165
    23:00          0         74       19        2        5        0        0        1         0        2       0         0        3           0       106
    Total        109      5013      1900       70     661        23        2      122        48       28       0         4       29           0      8009
  Percent      1.4%     62.6%     23.7%     0.9%     8.3%     0.3%     0.0%     1.5%      0.6%     0.3%     0.0%     0.0%     0.4%        0.0%
 AM Peak       09:00     11:00     11:00   08:00    09:00    07:00    11:00     11:00    09:00     08:00            00:00     09:00
      Vol.         4       226       117       10       35        5        1       10         8        4                 1        5
 PM Peak       16:00     17:00     17:00   13:00    16:00    12:00    21:00     12:00    12:00     18:00            19:00     23:00
      Vol.        25       656       227        8       74        2        1       20         4        4                 2        3

      Grand
                109      5013      1900       70      661       23        2      122        48       28        0        4        29          0       8009
       Total
     Percent   1.4%     62.6%     23.7%     0.9%     8.3%     0.3%     0.0%     1.5%     0.6%      0.3%     0.0%     0.0%     0.4%        0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 1
                                                                         All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                   15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                             Site Code: 25 Speed
EB                                                                               503-833-2740                                                     Hwy 126 W-O Fisher Rd
  Start          1       16           21         26           31        36      41      46       51       56       61      66      71      76              85th      95th
 Time           15       20           25         30           35        40      45      50       55       60       65      70      75    999    Total   Percent   Percent
  6/2/11         2        0            0          0            0         1       4       2        6        7        6       0       0       1     29         62        65
   01:00         0        0            0          0            0         1       1       2        1        7        6       2       0       0     20         64        66
   02:00         1        0            0          0            0         0       1       2        7        8        4       0       1       0     24         61        64
   03:00         0        0            0          0            0         2       1       0       10       19        5       8       0       0     45         66        68
   04:00         1        1            0          0            0         0       2       3       15       37       22       6       2       0     89         64        68
   05:00         5        0            0          0            0         1       3       4       46      116       68       6       5       0    254         63        65
   06:00        15        0            0          1            0         0       1       9       54      257      200      17       0       0    554         64        65
   07:00        18        0            1          0            0         1       6      61      274      423      140       7       0       0    931         61        64
   08:00        13        0            0          0            1         1      12      27      143      310      128       3       0       2    640         62        64
   09:00        19        0            0          1            0         0       5      26      104      239       93       5       1       0    493         62        64
   10:00        17        1            1          0            1         6      18      29      175      200       72       3       0       0    523         60        64
   11:00        22        0            0          0            1         2       4      16      135      211       80      14       1       0    486         62        65
  12 PM         27        0            1          0            0         1      17      28      101      215       84       5       0       0    479         61        64
   13:00        22        2            1          2            0         2       0       4       83      194      112       9       2       0    433         63        65
   14:00        30        0            0          1            1         0       3      44      159      191       82       6       0       0    517         61        64
   15:00        29        1            2          0            0         0       2      16      117      223       84      13       1       0    488         62        65
   16:00        31        0            3          0            1         1       1      24       85      178      121      10       1       1    457         63        65
   17:00        31        0            0          0            0         3       5      30       75      139      100      12       1       0    396         63        65
   18:00        16        0            0          1            0         0       2      13       46      107       95      18       1       1    300         64        67
   19:00        15        1            0          0            0         1       6      10       24       72       65      19       0       0    213         64        67
   20:00         8        0            1          0            0         1       1       6       28       68       47       7       1       0    168         64        65
   21:00         6        0            0          0            0         2       0       8       19       62       30      10       0       0    137         64        67
   22:00         2        0            0          1            0         0       6       8       26       30       27       1       3       0    104         63        65
   23:00         1        0            0          1            2         1       2       1        8       24       16       0       1       0     57         63        65
    Total      331        6           10          8            7        27     103     373     1741     3337     1687     181      21       5   7837
 Percent     4.2%     0.1%         0.1%       0.1%         0.1%      0.3%    1.3%    4.8%    22.2%    42.6%    21.5%    2.3%    0.3%    0.1%
AM Peak      11:00    04:00        07:00      06:00        08:00     10:00   10:00   07:00    07:00    07:00    06:00   06:00   05:00   08:00   07:00
     Vol.       22        1            1          1            1         6      18      61      274      423      200      17       5       2     931
PM Peak      16:00    13:00        16:00      13:00        23:00     17:00   12:00   14:00    14:00    15:00    16:00   19:00   22:00   16:00   14:00
     Vol.       31        2            3          2            2         3      17      44      159      223      121      19       3       1     517
  Grand
              331          6          10          8            7       27     103     373     1741     3337     1687     181      21       5    7837
    Total
 Percent     4.2%      0.1%         0.1%        0.1%       0.1%      0.3%    1.3%    4.8%    22.2%    42.6%    21.5%    2.3%    0.3%    0.1%
                               15th Percentile :          51 MPH
                               50th Percentile :          57 MPH
                               85th Percentile :          63 MPH
                               95th Percentile :          65 MPH

Statistics             10 MPH Pace Speed :             51-60 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                  5078
                            Percent in Pace :               64.8%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                   5231
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                66.7%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :                55 MPH
                                                                                                                                                                  Page 2
                                                                        All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                  15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                             Site Code: 25 Speed
WB                                                                              503-833-2740                                                     Hwy 126 W-O Fisher Rd
  Start          1       16          21         26           31        36      41      46       51       56       61      66      71      76              85th      95th
  Time          15       20          25         30           35        40      45      50       55       60       65      70      75    999    Total   Percent   Percent
   6/2/11        1        0           0          0            0         0       0       1        9       21       23       6       0       0     61         65        67
    01:00        0        0           0          0            0         0       2       2        2       13        6       5       2       0     32         67        70
    02:00        1        0           0          0            0         0       1       1        3        6        9       2       0       1     24         64        67
    03:00        2        0           0          0            0         0       0       0        1        6       10       5       1       0     25         67        70
    04:00        3        0           0          0            1         1       1       1        4       13       12       5       1       0     42         65        69
    05:00        8        0           0          0            1         1       5       8        5       20       25      11       3       1     88         66        70
    06:00       14        0           0          0            0         5      11       7        7       66       25       7       3       1    146         63        67
    07:00       31        0           2          0            0         3      17      20       39       86       38       8       0       0    244         62        65
    08:00       30        0           0          2            0         8      14      22       55       94       59       4       2       0    290         62        65
    09:00       26        0           0          0            2         5      10      14       89      136       57       5       0       1    345         61        64
    10:00       13        0           0          0            3         3       7      16       81      155       51       5       1       0    335         61        64
    11:00       26        1           0          1            2         5      20      17       72      178       65       9       2       0    398         62        65
   12 PM        33        1           0          0            1         7      16      37      126      207       55       4       1       0    488         60        64
    13:00       29        1           2          2            1         6      27      46      101      214       84       6       0       0    519         61        64
    14:00       30        2           3          4            0        12      21      42      141      205       81       5       0       0    546         61        64
    15:00       39        4           4          4            3        11      52      91      189      290       51       5       0       0    743         60        62
    16:00       38        0           4          8            3        12      40      81      221      356       91       7       0       0    861         60        63
    17:00       52        5           2          5            1         9      26     104      290      375      108       6       1       0    984         60        63
    18:00       28        0           1          0            1         6      28      37       77      315      112      19       2       0    626         62        65
    19:00       11        0           3          0            0         2      15      22       50      165      120      23       1       0    412         64        66
    20:00        8        1           2          1            0         1      19      22       32      105       80      14       0       0    285         64        65
    21:00        9        0           0          0            1         9      13      26       49       95       33       8       0       1    244         61        65
    22:00        4        0           0          0            1         4       5       9       34       79       25       4       0       0    165         61        65
    23:00        3        0           0          0            0         3       5       4       22       43       22       2       0       2    106         62        65
    Total      439       15          23         27           21       113     355     630     1699     3243     1242     175      20       7   8009
 Percent     5.5%     0.2%        0.3%       0.3%         0.3%      1.4%    4.4%    7.9%    21.2%    40.5%    15.5%    2.2%    0.2%    0.1%
AM Peak      07:00    11:00       07:00      08:00        10:00     08:00   11:00   08:00    09:00    11:00    11:00   05:00   05:00   02:00   11:00
     Vol.       31        1           2          2            3         8      20      22       89      178       65      11       3       1     398
PM Peak      17:00    17:00       15:00      16:00        15:00     14:00   15:00   17:00    17:00    17:00    19:00   19:00   18:00   23:00   17:00
     Vol.       52        5           4          8            3        12      52     104      290      375      120      23       2       2     984
   Grand
              439        15          23         27           21      113     355     630     1699     3243     1242     175      20       7    8009
    Total
 Percent     5.5%      0.2%        0.3%        0.3%       0.3%      1.4%    4.4%    7.9%    21.2%    40.5%    15.5%    2.2%    0.2%    0.1%
                              15th Percentile :          47 MPH
                              50th Percentile :          57 MPH
                              85th Percentile :          61 MPH
                              95th Percentile :          65 MPH

Statistics             10 MPH Pace Speed :            51-60 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                 4942
                            Percent in Pace :              61.7%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                  4687
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :               58.5%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :               53 MPH
                                                                                                                                                   Page 1
                                                          All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                    15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                             Site Code: 27 Class
EB                                                                503-833-2740                                                 Hwy 126 W-O Green Hill Rd
  Start                Cars &     2 Axle            2 Axle   3 Axle   4 Axle   <5 Axl    5 Axle   >6 Axl   <6 Axl   6 Axle   >6 Axl         Not
  Time         Bikes   Trailers     Long   Buses    6 Tire   Single   Single   Double   Double    Double    Multi    Multi     Multi   Classed      Total
   6/2/11          0         23        3        1        3        0        0        0         0        1       0         0        0           0       31
    01:00          0         12        5        0        1        0        0        0         0        0       0         0        1           0       19
    02:00          2         17        5        1        1        0        0        0         1        0       0         0        0           0       27
    03:00          1         28        9        0        5        1        0        1         0        1       0         0        0           0       46
    04:00          1         54       19        0        2        1        0        1         1        0       0         0        0           0       79
    05:00          5       147        53        0       18        1        0        0         0        2       0         0        1           0      227
    06:00          8       306       126        1       52        6        0        4         2        1       0         0        1           0      507
    07:00         10       637       171        2       49       16        0        5         2        2       0         1        2           0      897
    08:00          6       455       115        3       31        6        0        7         2        0       0         0        0           0      625
    09:00          9       335       101        5       23        8        1        8         2        1       0         0        2           0      495
    10:00          5       321       119        6       28       12        0        8         3        1       0         0        0           0      503
    11:00          7       297        95        5       30       10        0        4         6        2       0         0        0           0      456
   12 PM           3       309        97        5       29        9        1       11         6        2       0         0        1           0      473
    13:00          9       278        81        7       28       10        1        9         3        3       0         0        2           0      431
    14:00          5       276        99        3       34       23        0       17         5        1       0         0        2           0      465
    15:00          3       293        87        4       28       12        0       11         2        0       0         0        0           0      440
    16:00          6       266        86        6       30       19        1        9         2        0       0         0        2           0      427
    17:00          7       255        68        3       20       10        1        5         2        1       1         0        1           0      374
    18:00          8       200        58        6       14        4        0        2         2        0       0         0        2           0      296
    19:00          1       144        35        2        6        3        0        3         0        1       0         0        2           0      197
    20:00          0       115        27        2       12        2        0        0         0        0       0         0        2           0      160
    21:00          1         89       24        0        4        2        0        1         0        1       0         1        2           0      125
    22:00          0         74       17        1        4        0        0        1         0        0       0         0        0           0       97
    23:00          0         38       11        0        4        1        0        1         3        0       0         1        0           0       59
    Total         97      4969      1511       63     456      156         5      108        44       20       1         3       23           0     7456
  Percent      1.3%     66.6%     20.3%     0.8%     6.1%     2.1%     0.1%     1.4%      0.6%     0.3%     0.0%     0.0%     0.3%        0.0%
 AM Peak       07:00     07:00     07:00   10:00    06:00    07:00    09:00     09:00    11:00     05:00            07:00     07:00
      Vol.        10       637       171        6       52       16        1        8         6        2                 1        2
 PM Peak       13:00     12:00     14:00   13:00    14:00    14:00    12:00     14:00    12:00     13:00   17:00    21:00     13:00
      Vol.         9       309        99        7       34       23        1       17         6        3       1         1        2

      Grand
                 97      4969      1511       63      456      156        5      108        44       20        1        3        23          0      7456
       Total
     Percent   1.3%     66.6%     20.3%     0.8%     6.1%     2.1%     0.1%     1.4%     0.6%      0.3%     0.0%     0.0%     0.3%       0.0%
                                                                                                                                                   Page 2
                                                          All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                    15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                             Site Code: 27 Class
WB                                                                503-833-2740                                                 Hwy 126 W-O Green Hill Rd
  Start                Cars &     2 Axle            2 Axle   3 Axle   4 Axle   <5 Axl    5 Axle   >6 Axl   <6 Axl   6 Axle   >6 Axl         Not
  Time         Bikes   Trailers     Long   Buses    6 Tire   Single   Single   Double   Double    Double    Multi    Multi     Multi   Classed      Total
   6/2/11          1         42       13        0        0        0        0        0         0        1       0         0        1           0       58
    01:00          0         19        6        0        0        0        0        0         1        0       0         0        0           0       26
    02:00          0         17        4        0        2        0        0        0         1        0       0         0        0           0       24
    03:00          0         13        9        0        2        0        0        2         0        1       0         0        0           0       27
    04:00          0         22        6        1        5        0        0        1         4        0       0         0        0           0       39
    05:00          1         51       12        0        6        0        0        8         0        1       0         0        2           0       81
    06:00          3         69       32        4        7        1        0        2         5        3       0         0        0           0      126
    07:00          7       130        41        1       12        2        0        1         3        2       0         0        0           0      199
    08:00          9       168        45        5       25        2        0        3         2        4       0         0        1           0      264
    09:00          9       195        77        7       21        2        1        8         5        1       0         0        1           0      327
    10:00          4       221        68        1       20        2        0        6         1        2       0         1        2           0      328
    11:00          5       252        85        2       19        1        0        7         7        3       0         0        0           0      381
   12 PM           8       296        94        1       32        2        0       13         4        1       0         0        1           0      452
    13:00         13       308        81        8       35        2        0        6         2        3       0         0        0           0      458
    14:00          8       360        89        2       32        3        0        7         4        2       0         0        0           0      507
    15:00          9       451       137        5       44        3        0        3         2        1       0         0        0           0      655
    16:00          6       570       144        2       48        2        0        8         2        2       0         0        0           0      784
    17:00          2       692       152        2       39        4        0        5         1        0       0         0        1           0      898
    18:00          5       407        95        0       27        1        1        4         2        2       0         0        0           0      544
    19:00          2       266        53        1       29        4        0        4         2        1       0         1        1           0      364
    20:00          1       190        49        0        9        0        0        1         2        0       0         0        1           0      253
    21:00          0       150        39        1       13        0        1        5         1        1       0         0        1           0      212
    22:00          0       102        30        0        6        0        0        2         1        1       0         0        3           0      145
    23:00          1         73       14        1        6        0        0        1         2        1       0         0        2           0      101
    Total         94      5064      1375       44     439        31        3       97        54       33       0         2       17           0     7253
  Percent      1.3%     69.8%     19.0%     0.6%     6.1%     0.4%     0.0%     1.3%      0.7%     0.5%     0.0%     0.0%     0.2%        0.0%
 AM Peak       08:00     11:00     11:00   09:00    08:00    07:00    09:00     05:00    11:00     08:00            10:00     05:00
      Vol.         9       252        85        7       25        2        1        8         7        4                 1        2
 PM Peak       13:00     17:00     17:00   13:00    16:00    17:00    18:00     12:00    12:00     13:00            19:00     22:00
      Vol.        13       692       152        8       48        4        1       13         4        3                 1        3

      Grand
                 94      5064      1375       44      439       31        3       97        54       33        0        2        17          0      7253
       Total
     Percent   1.3%     69.8%     19.0%     0.6%     6.1%     0.4%     0.0%     1.3%     0.7%      0.5%     0.0%     0.0%     0.2%       0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 1
                                                                        All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                  15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                              Site Code: 27 Speed
EB                                                                              503-833-2740                                                   Hwy 126 W-O Green Hill Rd
  Start          1       16          21         26           31        36       41       46       51      56      61      66      71      76               85th      95th
 Time           15       20          25         30           35        40       45       50       55      60      65      70      75    999     Total   Percent   Percent
  6/2/11         4        0           0          0            0         0       11        7        5       4       0       0       0       0      31         54        57
   01:00         1        0           0          0            0         0        4        8        3       3       0       0       0       0      19         55        57
   02:00         2        1           0          0            1         1        5       10        3       2       2       0       0       0      27         53        61
   03:00         2        0           0          0            1         1        7       16       15       3       1       0       0       0      46         54        57
   04:00         3        0           0          0            0         1        4       20       29      18       4       0       0       0      79         58        60
   05:00        17        0           0          0            0         2        8       37      100      51      10       1       0       1     227         58        61
   06:00        12        1           0          2            8        10       68      162      207      34       3       0       0       0     507         55        57
   07:00        11        1           1          8           56        88      273      307      147       4       0       1       0       0     897         51        54
   08:00        19        0           1          0           14        14      157      267      142       9       2       0       0       0     625         53        55
   09:00         7        0           0          1            9        13      107      162      178      18       0       0       0       0     495         54        55
   10:00        11        2           0          2           14        26      124      171      130      20       1       1       1       0     503         53        55
   11:00        14        1           1          2           12        18       84      162      143      19       0       0       0       0     456         54        55
  12 PM         12        2           1          0            5        15       93      196      133      15       1       0       0       0     473         53        55
   13:00         9        1           0          1            3        18       55      182      149      11       2       0       0       0     431         54        55
   14:00         8        0           2          2           20        15      134      152      123       8       0       0       0       1     465         53        55
   15:00        11        1           0          2           13        15       86      166      137       8       1       0       0       0     440         53        55
   16:00         8        0           0          1            5         7       60      171      156      16       2       1       0       0     427         54        55
   17:00        12        2           0          0            9        17       80      121      120      12       1       0       0       0     374         54        55
   18:00         7        0           1          2            2         6       36      102      110      27       3       0       0       0     296         55        58
   19:00         9        0           1          0            0         2       23       55       86      16       3       1       0       1     197         55        59
   20:00         6        0           0          0            1         0       14       51       68      19       1       0       0       0     160         55        58
   21:00         4        0           0          1            0         5       15       44       49       5       2       0       0       0     125         54        56
   22:00         2        0           0          0            0         1       24       30       34       6       0       0       0       0      97         54        56
   23:00         1        0           0          0            0         3        8       24       20       3       0       0       0       0      59         54        55
    Total      192       12           8         24          173       278     1480     2623     2287     331      39       5       1       3    7456
 Percent     2.6%     0.2%        0.1%       0.3%         2.3%      3.7%    19.8%    35.2%    30.7%    4.4%    0.5%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      08:00    10:00       07:00      07:00        07:00     07:00    07:00    07:00    06:00   05:00   05:00   05:00   10:00   05:00    07:00
     Vol.       19        2           1          8           56        88      273      307      207      51      10       1       1       1      897
PM Peak      12:00    12:00       14:00      14:00        14:00     13:00    14:00    12:00    16:00   18:00   18:00   16:00           14:00    12:00
     Vol.       12        2           2          2           20        18      134      196      156      27       3       1               1      473
  Grand
              192        12           8         24          173      278     1480     2623     2287     331      39       5       1       3     7456
    Total
 Percent     2.6%      0.2%        0.1%        0.3%       2.3%      3.7%    19.8%    35.2%    30.7%    4.4%    0.5%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%
                              15th Percentile :          42 MPH
                              50th Percentile :          48 MPH
                              85th Percentile :          54 MPH
                              95th Percentile :          56 MPH

Statistics             10 MPH Pace Speed :            46-55 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                 4910
                            Percent in Pace :              65.9%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                   379
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                 5.1%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :               47 MPH
                                                                                                                                                                     Page 2
                                                                         All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                   15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                               Site Code: 27 Speed
WB                                                                               503-833-2740                                                    Hwy 126 W-O Green Hill Rd
  Start          1       16           21         26           31        36       41       46       51       56      61      66      71      76               85th      95th
  Time          15       20           25         30           35        40       45       50       55       60      65      70      75    999     Total   Percent   Percent
   6/2/11        1        0            0          0            0         3       15       22       13        4       0       0       0       0      58         53        56
    01:00        1        0            0          0            0         0        3       11        6        5       0       0       0       0      26         56        59
    02:00        2        0            0          0            0         0        6        6        7        1       2       0       0       0      24         54        61
    03:00        2        0            0          1            0         1        6        9        5        3       0       0       0       0      27         54        57
    04:00        3        0            0          0            0         4        5        9       11        6       1       0       0       0      39         56        59
    05:00        8        0            0          0            0         0        5       20       26       16       5       1       0       0      81         58        62
    06:00        6        0            1          1            1         1       23       24       39       24       5       0       1       0     126         58        60
    07:00       13        2            1          0            6         5       36       61       40       33       2       0       0       0     199         56        59
    08:00       11        0            1          4            2        12       40      108       60       23       2       0       1       0     264         54        58
    09:00        8        1            0          0            6        13       74      123       77       22       3       0       0       0     327         54        57
    10:00        6        0            0          0            1        19       85      113       62       36       3       2       0       1     328         55        59
    11:00        8        0            1          0            7        34       61      129       85       52       3       0       0       1     381         55        59
   12 PM        18        0            0          3            1        15      103      182       96       30       3       1       0       0     452         54        57
    13:00       10        1            2          0            0        20       98      175      112       38       2       0       0       0     458         54        58
    14:00        5        2            0          0            7        26      139      156      103       68       1       0       0       0     507         55        59
    15:00       10        0            0          1            7        46      161      221      149       60       0       0       0       0     655         54        58
    16:00        7        0            1         12           25        52      211      271      144       55       1       2       2       1     784         53        57
    17:00        9        1            1          1           12        96      225      346      165       37       2       0       3       0     898         53        55
    18:00        3        0            0          0            6        16       97      161      178       73       8       1       1       0     544         56        59
    19:00        6        1            0          1            2         5       24       78      128      103      16       0       0       0     364         59        60
    20:00        0        0            1          0            0         4       27       64       92       57       6       1       0       1     253         58        60
    21:00        1        0            0          0            0         6       30       72       72       28       3       0       0       0     212         55        59
    22:00        2        0            0          0            0         5        5       38       61       29       5       0       0       0     145         57        60
    23:00        1        0            0          0            0         4       19       38       27       12       0       0       0       0     101         55        58
    Total      141        8            9         24           83       387     1498     2437     1758      815      73       8       8       4    7253
 Percent     1.9%     0.1%         0.1%       0.3%         1.1%      5.3%    20.7%    33.6%    24.2%    11.2%    1.0%    0.1%    0.1%    0.1%
AM Peak      07:00    07:00        06:00      08:00        11:00     11:00    10:00    11:00    11:00    11:00   05:00   10:00   06:00   10:00    11:00
     Vol.       13        2            1          4            7        34       85      129       85       52       5       2       1       1      381
PM Peak      12:00    14:00        13:00      16:00        16:00     17:00    17:00    17:00    18:00    19:00   19:00   16:00   17:00   16:00    17:00
     Vol.       18        2            2         12           25        96      225      346      178      103      16       2       3       1      898
   Grand
              141          8           9         24           83      387     1498     2437     1758      815      73       8       8       4     7253
    Total
 Percent     1.9%      0.1%         0.1%        0.3%       1.1%      5.3%    20.7%    33.6%    24.2%    11.2%    1.0%    0.1%    0.1%    0.1%
                               15th Percentile :          42 MPH
                               50th Percentile :          49 MPH
                               85th Percentile :          55 MPH
                               95th Percentile :          59 MPH

Statistics             10 MPH Pace Speed :             46-55 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                  4195
                            Percent in Pace :               57.8%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                    908
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                12.5%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :                48 MPH
                                                                                                                                                  Page 1
                                                          All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                    15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                            Site Code: 25 Class
EB                                                                503-833-2740                                               Hwy 126 W-O Ken Neilsen Rd
  Start                Cars &     2 Axle            2 Axle   3 Axle   4 Axle   <5 Axl    5 Axle   >6 Axl   <6 Axl   6 Axle   >6 Axl         Not
  Time         Bikes   Trailers     Long   Buses    6 Tire   Single   Single   Double   Double    Double    Multi    Multi     Multi   Classed     Total
   6/2/11          1         17        4        0        3        0        0        0         0        1       0         0        1           0      27
    01:00          0         12        6        0        2        0        0        0         0        0       0         0        1           0      21
    02:00          0         18        7        0        2        0        0        0         1        0       0         0        0           0      28
    03:00          2         24       10        0        5        1        0        1         0        0       0         0        1           0      44
    04:00          1         54       20        0        5        0        0        2         0        0       0         0        0           0      82
    05:00          2       156        56        1       17        2        0        0         1        1       0         0        1           0     237
    06:00          4       356       125        1       52       13        0        3         0        2       0         0        2           0     558
    07:00          8       694       180        4       61       19        1        6         3        0       0         0        3           0     979
    08:00          5       453       126        5       34       12        0        6         2        1       0         0        0           0     644
    09:00          6       323       126        4       23        7        0        8         1        1       0         1        0           0     500
    10:00          3       334       127        4       32        8        1        5         3        1       0         0        2           0     520
    11:00          6       323        97        7       37        8        0        8         3        3       0         0        1           0     493
   12 PM           2       298       112        4       35        9        1       10         6        1       0         0        0           0     478
    13:00          7       286        90        7       33        8        0        7         3        1       0         0        1           0     443
    14:00          5       295       115        5       35       10        1       17         3        2       0         1        2           0     491
    15:00          1       286        92        5       36        5        0       10         2        2       0         0        0           0     439
    16:00          2       264       102        6       33       10        0        6         0        2       0         0        1           0     426
    17:00          3       231        90        2       27        9        1        5         0        1       1         0        0           0     370
    18:00          1       188        66        4       15        6        0        2         1        1       0         0        0           0     284
    19:00          0       128        41        4       10        0        0        3         0        2       0         0        0           0     188
    20:00          3         99       34        2       12        2        0        0         0        0       1         0        2           0     155
    21:00          1         86       22        0        6        0        0        1         2        1       1         1        1           0     122
    22:00          2         69       19        3        8        0        0        0         0        1       0         0        0           0     102
    23:00          0         30       11        1        7        1        0        0         1        2       0         0        1           0      54
    Total         65      5024      1678       69     530      130         5      100        32       26       3         3       20           0    7685
  Percent      0.8%     65.4%     21.8%     0.9%     6.9%     1.7%     0.1%     1.3%      0.4%     0.3%     0.0%     0.0%     0.3%        0.0%
 AM Peak       07:00     07:00     07:00   11:00    07:00    07:00    07:00     09:00    07:00     11:00            09:00     07:00
      Vol.         8       694       180        7       61       19        1        8         3        3                 1        3
 PM Peak       13:00     12:00     14:00   13:00    15:00    14:00    12:00     14:00    12:00     14:00   17:00    14:00     14:00
      Vol.         7       298       115        7       36       10        1       17         6        2       1         1        2

      Grand
                 65      5024      1678       69      530      130        5      100        32       26        3        3        20          0     7685
       Total
     Percent   0.8%     65.4%     21.8%     0.9%     6.9%     1.7%     0.1%     1.3%     0.4%      0.3%     0.0%     0.0%     0.3%       0.0%
                                                                                                                                                   Page 2
                                                          All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                    15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                             Site Code: 25 Class
WB                                                                503-833-2740                                                Hwy 126 W-O Ken Neilsen Rd
  Start                Cars &     2 Axle            2 Axle    3 Axle   4 Axle   <5 Axl    5 Axle   >6 Axl   <6 Axl   6 Axle   >6 Axl         Not
  Time         Bikes   Trailers     Long   Buses     6 Tire   Single   Single   Double   Double    Double    Multi    Multi     Multi   Classed     Total
   6/2/11          0         31       18        0         6        1        0        1         1        1       0         0        1           0      60
    01:00          1         17        8        1         1        0        0        1         0        0       0         0        1           0      30
    02:00          0         13        5        0         3        0        0        0         1        0       0         0        0           0      22
    03:00          0         15        9        0         4        0        0        2         0        0       0         0        0           0      30
    04:00          2         16       10        1         6        0        0        1         3        0       0         0        0           0      39
    05:00          1         37       16        4       13         0        0        5         0        0       0         0        0           0      76
    06:00          0         68       41        7       12         1        0        1         4        1       0         0        0           0     135
    07:00          2       115        57        4       24         3        0        2         2        1       0         0        1           0     211
    08:00          4       137        67       10       37         6        0        6         1        2       0         0        2           0     272
    09:00          5       144       102       11       46         2        0       12         3        0       0         0        2           0     327
    10:00          1       190       105        4       31         2        0        5         1        0       0         0        0           0     339
    11:00          5       180       132        6       43         3        0       15         0        0       0         0        0           0     384
   12 PM           7       216       153        5       67         3        0       13         3        1       0         0        1           0     469
    13:00          5       260       130       11       61         2        0        9         1        3       0         0        0           0     482
    14:00          9       265       160        3       62         4        0        6         0        0       1         0        2           0     512
    15:00          6       333       201        7       86         4        0        6         0        1       0         0        0           0     644
    16:00          6       425       246        6       97         5        1        5         1        0       0         0        0           0     792
    17:00          5       449       302        3      108         4        0        9         1        1       0         0        0           0     882
    18:00          1       288       191        2       62         2        2        6         2        0       0         0        0           0     556
    19:00          2       181       124        3       54         0        0        7         3        1       0         1        0           0     376
    20:00          3       121        98        0       24         2        0        3         1        0       0         0        0           0     252
    21:00          0       109        73        2       25         0        0        4         0        1       0         0        0           0     214
    22:00          1         70       47        2       19         3        0        2         0        0       0         0        2           0     146
    23:00          1         51       31        2         7        2        0        1         0        1       0         1        1           0      98
    Total         67      3731      2326       94      898        49        3      122        28       14       1         2       13           0    7348
  Percent      0.9%     50.8%     31.7%     1.3%    12.2%      0.7%     0.0%     1.7%      0.4%     0.2%     0.0%     0.0%     0.2%        0.0%
 AM Peak       09:00     10:00     11:00   09:00     09:00    08:00              11:00    06:00     08:00                      08:00
      Vol.         5       190       132       11       46         6                15         4        2                          2
 PM Peak       14:00     17:00     17:00   13:00     17:00    16:00    18:00     12:00    12:00     13:00   14:00    19:00     14:00
      Vol.         9       449       302       11      108         5       2        13         3        3       1        1         2

      Grand
                 67      3731      2326       94      898        49        3      122        28       14        1        2        13          0     7348
       Total
     Percent   0.9%     50.8%     31.7%     1.3%    12.2%      0.7%     0.0%     1.7%     0.4%      0.2%     0.0%     0.0%     0.2%       0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                     Page 1
                                                                         All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                   15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                              Site Code: 25 Speed
EB                                                                               503-833-2740                                                  Hwy 126 W-O Ken Neilsen Rd
  Start          1       16           21         26           31        36      41      46       51       56      61      66      71      76                 85th      95th
 Time           15       20           25         30           35        40      45      50       55       60      65      70      75    999       Total   Percent   Percent
  6/2/11         2        0            0          0            0         0       0       2        7       14       0       1       1       0        27         59        70
   01:00         3        0            0          0            0         0       0       1        2        8       5       2       0       0        21         64        66
   02:00         3        0            0          0            0         0       1       6        5        7       4       1       0       1        28         62        66
   03:00         3        0            0          0            0         1       0       3       14       11       8       4       0       0        44         63        67
   04:00         2        0            0          0            0         2       0       0       13       43      14       7       0       1        82         64        67
   05:00         9        0            0          0            0         6       0       5       56      102      51       2       4       2       237         63        65
   06:00        11        0            0          0            4        21       5      12      134      312      55       4       0       0       558         60        63
   07:00         7        1            2          0            6        44       7      68      421      378      38       5       2       0       979         59        60
   08:00         5        1            1          0            2        15       1      24      223      311      61       0       0       0       644         60        63
   09:00        12        0            1          0            0        10       7      17      165      249      38       1       0       0       500         60        62
   10:00         9        0            0          0            5        16      32      54      190      179      32       3       0       0       520         59        62
   11:00        11        0            0          1            5         5       4      30      170      218      45       3       0       1       493         60        63
  12 PM         15        1            0          1            3         6      10      55      146      198      39       3       0       1       478         60        63
   13:00        19        3            0          1            3        10       1      27      132      207      38       2       0       0       443         60        63
   14:00        20        1            0          0            4         6       9      70      164      186      28       2       0       1       491         59        61
   15:00        17        1            1          0            1         6      11      30      145      186      39       1       0       1       439         60        63
   16:00         9        0            0          1            2         2       0      14      131      202      58       5       1       1       426         61        64
   17:00         8        0            0          1            0         2       6      21      112      169      45       5       0       1       370         60        64
   18:00        11        0            0          0            0         2       3      23       69      126      43       6       0       1       284         61        65
   19:00         8        0            0          0            0         0       0       7       31       96      43       2       1       0       188         62        65
   20:00        12        1            0          0            0         0       2       1       40       65      29       4       0       1       155         62        65
   21:00         8        0            0          0            0         0       0      10       34       44      24       2       0       0       122         62        64
   22:00         6        0            0          0            1         0       4      11       34       27      12       6       0       1       102         62        66
   23:00         3        0            0          0            0         1       0       4       16       21       6       2       1       0        54         61        65
    Total      213        9            5          5           36       155     103     495     2454     3359     755      73      10      13      7685
 Percent     2.8%     0.1%         0.1%       0.1%         0.5%      2.0%    1.3%    6.4%    31.9%    43.7%    9.8%    0.9%    0.1%    0.2%
AM Peak      09:00    07:00        07:00      11:00        07:00     07:00   10:00   07:00    07:00    07:00   08:00   04:00   05:00   05:00     07:00
     Vol.       12        1            2          1            6        44      32      68      421      378      61       7       4       2       979
PM Peak      14:00    13:00        15:00      12:00        14:00     13:00   15:00   14:00    14:00    13:00   16:00   18:00   16:00   12:00     14:00
     Vol.       20        3            1          1            4        10      11      70      164      207      58       6       1       1       491
  Grand
              213          9           5          5           36      155     103     495     2454     3359     755      73      10      13       7685
    Total
 Percent     2.8%      0.1%         0.1%        0.1%       0.5%      2.0%    1.3%    6.4%    31.9%    43.7%    9.8%    0.9%    0.1%    0.2%
                               15th Percentile :          51 MPH
                               50th Percentile :          56 MPH
                               85th Percentile :          60 MPH
                               95th Percentile :          64 MPH

Statistics             10 MPH Pace Speed :             51-60 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                  5813
                            Percent in Pace :               75.6%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                   4210
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                54.8%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :                54 MPH
                                                                                                                                                                      Page 2
                                                                         All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                   15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683                                               Site Code: 25 Speed
WB                                                                               503-833-2740                                                   Hwy 126 W-O Ken Neilsen Rd
  Start          1       16           21         26           31        36      41      46       51       56       61      66      71      76                 85th      95th
  Time          15       20           25         30           35        40      45      50       55       60       65      70      75    999       Total   Percent   Percent
   6/2/11        2        0            0          0            0         0       0       2        9       19       22       5       1       0        60         65        68
    01:00        4        0            0          0            0         0       0       0        8        6        3       8       1       0        30         67        69
    02:00        5        0            0          0            0         0       0       1        3        8        2       2       1       0        22         65        67
    03:00        1        0            0          0            0         0       1       1        2       11        9       4       1       0        30         65        68
    04:00        3        0            0          0            0         0       2       0        8        8       12       6       0       0        39         65        68
    05:00        0        0            0          0            0         0       1       0        5       23       31      13       2       1        76         67        70
    06:00        2        0            0          0            0         2       3       4       15       48       51       7       1       2       135         64        67
    07:00        4        0            3          0            0         0       3      11       22       62       86      15       2       3       211         65        68
    08:00       12        0            0          1            0         0       7       7       24       78      119      18       3       3       272         65        68
    09:00        8        0            0          0            0         1       0       2       44      125      118      21       6       2       327         65        68
    10:00       11        0            1          0            0         1       2       5       55      118      122      19       4       1       339         64        67
    11:00       15        1            0          3            1         1       3       1       29      143      140      39       5       3       384         65        69
   12 PM         9        0            1          3            0         1       2      10       45      171      182      40       4       1       469         65        68
    13:00       12        1            0          0            0         1       0       5       47      170      195      46       4       1       482         65        68
    14:00        8        0            1          0            1         2       3      11       59      181      208      33       3       2       512         65        67
    15:00        7        0            2          0            1         1       4      24      111      260      209      21       2       2       644         64        65
    16:00        6        0            0          2            1         2       5      18      110      318      287      36       6       1       792         64        66
    17:00        9        0            2          0            0         3       1      29      125      354      297      56       5       1       882         64        67
    18:00        9        0            0          0            0         1       0       0       20      203      226      81      14       2       556         66        70
    19:00        1        0            1          0            0         0       0       1       13       97      158      86      13       6       376         68        70
    20:00        2        0            0          0            0         0       0       3       10       56      111      55      12       3       252         68        71
    21:00        0        0            0          0            0         0       4       3       25       71       79      26       6       0       214         65        69
    22:00        1        0            0          0            0         0       1       4       21       46       59      12       1       1       146         65        68
    23:00        1        0            0          1            0         0       0       2        7       29       45      10       0       3        98         65        69
    Total      132        2           11         10            4        16      42     144      817     2605     2771     659      97      38      7348
 Percent     1.8%     0.0%         0.1%       0.1%         0.1%      0.2%    0.6%    2.0%    11.1%    35.5%    37.7%    9.0%    1.3%    0.5%
AM Peak      11:00    11:00        07:00      11:00        11:00     06:00   08:00   07:00    10:00    11:00    11:00   11:00   09:00   07:00     11:00
     Vol.       15        1            3          3            1         2       7      11       55      143      140      39       6       3       384
PM Peak      13:00    13:00        15:00      12:00        14:00     17:00   16:00   17:00    17:00    17:00    17:00   19:00   18:00   19:00     17:00
     Vol.       12        1            2          3            1         3       5      29      125      354      297      86      14       6       882
   Grand
              132          2          11         10            4       16      42     144      817     2605     2771     659      97      38       7348
    Total
 Percent     1.8%      0.0%         0.1%        0.1%       0.1%      0.2%    0.6%    2.0%    11.1%    35.5%    37.7%    9.0%    1.3%    0.5%
                               15th Percentile :          55 MPH
                               50th Percentile :          60 MPH
                               85th Percentile :          65 MPH
                               95th Percentile :          69 MPH

Statistics             10 MPH Pace Speed :             56-65 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                  5376
                            Percent in Pace :               73.2%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                   6170
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                84.0%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :                59 MPH
                                    Origin-Destination Surveys




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                    P09042019 
OriginDestination Survey Results (TTMATRIX_REPORT)
Travel Time Report Parameters
    METHOD                       ALL

Status of Station Pairs
                                                               END STATION
    BEGIN STATION                Site 1  West of 8th    Site 2  West of Green Hill  Site 3  East of Ellmaker
    Site 1  West of 8th                                OK                          OK
    Site 2  West of Green Hill   OK                                                OK
    Site 3  East of Ellmaker     OK                    OK

Mean Travel Time in Minutes
                                                               END STATION
    BEGIN STATION                Site 1  West of 8th    Site 2  West of Green Hill     Site 3  East of Ellmaker
    Site 1  West of 8th                                                      11.25                           3.96
    Site 2  West of Green Hill                 11.98                                                         7.51
    Site 3  East of Ellmaker                    4.74                             6.4

All Measured Parameters
                                                                                              END STATION
    BEGIN STATION                                          Site 1  West of 8th         Site 2  West of Green Hill Site 3  East of Ellmaker
    Site 1  West of 8th          count                                                                        338                       380
                                 mean_minutes                                                               11.25                      3.96
                                 min_minutes                                                                 7.35                      2.32
                                 max_minutes                                                                77.22                     25.25
                                 median_minutes                                                              8.75                      3.05
                                 PCT25_minutes                                                               8.38                       2.8
                                 PCT75_minutes                                                               9.17                      3.43
                                 PCT85_minutes                                                               9.73                       3.7
    Site 2  West of Green Hill   count                                         247                                                      663
                                 mean_minutes                                11.98                                                     7.51
                                 min_minutes                                  7.53                                                     4.63
                                 max_minutes                                 81.77                                                       61
                                 median_minutes                               8.92                                                     5.68
                                 PCT25_minutes                                8.48                                                      5.5
                                 PCT75_minutes                                9.55                                                      5.9
                                 PCT85_minutes                               12.17                                                     6.08
    Site 3  East of Ellmaker     count                                         391                            840
                                 mean_minutes                                 4.74                            6.4
                                 min_minutes                                  2.27                            4.6
                                 max_minutes                                 28.02                          57.57
                                 median_minutes                               3.15                            5.6
                                 PCT25_minutes                                2.85                           5.42
                                 PCT75_minutes                                3.59                           5.78
                                 PCT85_minutes                                4.94                            5.9
    A.M. Peak Hour Turn Movement Counts




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan    P09042019 
                                                                                                                                      In           Out




                                                                                                                      HV 8.1%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                     PHF 0.77
                                                                                                                                      37           23
                                                                                                                                         8   5      24
                                                                                                                                                                          HV 8.0%
                                                                                                                                                                         PHF 0.88
                                                                                                                                             0

                                                                                                                 4                                                       7
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 236                                                                            226 In
                                                                                                               521                                                       201




                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                          0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   534                                                                          702 Out
                                                                                                                 9                                                       18

                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                          HV 3.6%
Huston Rd & Hwy 126                                                                                      PHF 0.79




                                                                                                                                                               HV 3.6%
                                                                                                                                                              PHF 0.72
                                                                                                                                      27     12     157
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                               Out           In
                                                                                                                                      32           196
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                          Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                          7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start              Huston Rd                     Huston Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                       Interval                         Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes    L      T     R              Bikes     Total           North          South East    West
 6:00 AM     2        0      15       0      3      0       0       0      0     54     2        0       2    18     1                0         97             0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM     0        0      27       0      2      0       1       0      1     68     3        0       2    19     1                0        124             0               0      0     0
 6:30 AM     4        1      27       0      1      1       3       0      1     86     3        0       3    19     1                0        150             0               0      0     0
 6:45 AM     5        0      29       0      3      1       6       0      1     98     2        0       1    28     0                0        174             0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM     0        0      38       0      2      0       0       0      1     112    2        0       7    18     1                0        181             0               0      0     0
 7:15 AM     5        4      44       0      7      1       0       0      1     129    2        0       7    37     0                0        237             0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM     8        3      57       0      5      1       1       0      1     164    4        0       2    59     2                0        307             0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM     8        2      30       0      6      2       4       0      0     119    0        0       6    46     3                0        226             0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM     6        3      26       0      6      1       3       0      2     109    3        0       3    59     2                0        223             0               0      0     0
 8:15 AM     4        1      22       0      5      1       1       0      0     123    1        0       9    47     2                0        216             0               0      0     0
 8:30 AM     3        2      12       0      3      2       0       0      2     81     5        0       6    59     0                0        175             0               0      0     0
 8:45 AM     2        3      12       0      2      1       2       0      1     88     0        0      13    76     2                0        202             0               0      0     0
   Total
             47       19    339       0      45     11     21       0      11   1,231   27       0      61    485       15           0           2,312          0              0     0        0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   By
                      Huston Rd                     Huston Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total                        Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total           Bikes                     North          South East    West
 Volume     196       32     228      0      37     23      60      0     534    236    770      0      226   702    928              0            993         0               0      0     0
  %HV                    3.6%                          8.1%                         3.6%                         8.0%                             4.7%
  PHF                    0.72                          0.77                         0.79                         0.88                             0.81

                  Northbound                       Southbound                    Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                   Huston Rd                        Huston Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total
Movement
              L    T      R         Total     L      T     R      Total      L    T     R      Total      L    T     R          Total
 Volume      27    12    157        196      24      5      8     37         4   521     9     534       18   201     7         226                993
  %HV       3.7% 16.7% 2.5%         3.6%    8.3%   0.0% 12.5%     8.1%    25.0% 3.1% 22.2%     3.6%    11.1% 8.0% 0.0%          8.0%              4.7%
  PHF       0.84  0.75   0.69       0.72    0.86   0.63   0.50    0.77     0.50 0.79   0.56    0.79     0.64 0.85   0.58        0.88              0.81



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start              Huston Rd                     Huston Rd                     Hwy 126                       Hwy 126                      Interval                         Crosswalk
   Time       L       T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes    L      T      R             Bikes     Total           North          South East    West
 6:00 AM     11       1      98       0       9     2      10       0      3     306    10       0       8     84     3               0        545             0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM      9        1    121       0       8     2      10       0      4     364    10       0      13     84     3               0        629             0               0      0     0
 6:30 AM     14       5     138       0      13     3       9       0      4     425     9       0      18    102     2               0        742             0               0      0     0
 6:45 AM     18       7     168       0      17     3       7       0      4     503    10       0      17    142     3               0        899             0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM     21       9     169       0      20     4       5       0      3     524     8       0      22    160     6               0        951             0               0      0     0
 7:15 AM     27       12    157       0      24     5       8       0      4     521     9       0      18    201     7               0        993             0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM     26       9     135       0      22     5       9       0      3     515     8       0      20    211     9               0        972             0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM     21       8      90       0      20     6       8       0      4     432     9       0      24    211     7               0        840             0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM     15       9      72       0      16     5       6       0      5     401    9        0      31    241     6               0        816             0               0      0     0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                          1            0
                                                                                                                                             0   0     1
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     0                                                      0
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 0                                                                                      0 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   0                                                                                    1 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 1 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.00




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              6:45 AM to 7:45 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 1                    Driveway 1                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      1      0       0       0      0      0      0       0         0     0           0           0             1           0             0      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
6:45 AM to 7:45 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 1                    Driveway 1                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       1      0      1       0       0     0      0       0         0     1      1                 0            1          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.25                         0.00                           0.00                              0.25

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 1                    Driveway 1                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         1      0      0     1         0      0      0    0         0        0      0          0                  1
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.00    0.25    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00         0.00             0.25



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 1                    Driveway 1                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                          1            1
                                                                                                                                             1   0     0
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     1                                                      0
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 1                                                                                      0 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   1                                                                                    0 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 2 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.25




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 2                    Driveway 2                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            1               0      0      0
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      1      0       1       0      1      0      0       0         0     0           0           0             3           1             0      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 2                    Driveway 2                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       1      1      2       0       1     1      2       0         0     0      0                 0            2          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.25                         0.25                           0.00                              0.50

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 2                    Driveway 2                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         0      0      1     1         1      0      0    1         0        0      0          0                  2
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.25    0.25    0.25   0.00   0.00   0.25    0.00     0.00   0.00         0.00             0.50



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 2                    Driveway 2                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            1               0      0      0
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                          1            4
                                                                                                                                             0   0     1
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     2                                                      2
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 0                                                                                      2 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   2                                                                                    1 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 3 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.25




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              6:30 AM to 7:30 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 3                    Driveway 3                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            1               0      0      0
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      2      0       1       0      4      0      0       0         0     0           2           0             9           1             0      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
6:30 AM to 7:30 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 3                    Driveway 3                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       1      4      5       0       2     0      2       0         2     1      3                 0            5          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.25                         0.25                           0.50                              0.42

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 3                    Driveway 3                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         1      0      0     1         2      0      0    2         0        0      2          2                  5
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.00    0.25    0.25   0.00   0.00   0.25    0.00     0.00   0.50         0.50             0.42



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 3                    Driveway 3                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            1               0      0      0
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      4      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                          2            1
                                                                                                                                             1   0     1
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     1                                                      0
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 1                                                                                      0 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   1                                                                                    1 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 4 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.25




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              7:30 AM to 8:30 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 4                    Driveway 4                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            1               0      0      0
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      1      0       1       0      1      0      0       0         0     0           0           0             3           1             0      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:30 AM to 8:30 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 4                    Driveway 4                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       2      1      3       0       1     1      2       0         0     1      1                 0            3          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.25                         0.25                           0.00                              0.38

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 4                    Driveway 4                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         1      0      1     2         1      0      0    1         0        0      0          0                  3
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.25    0.25    0.25   0.00   0.00   0.25    0.00     0.00   0.00         0.00             0.38



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 4                    Driveway 4                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            1               0      0      0
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                          4            2
                                                                                                                                             3   0     1
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     2                                                      0
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 3                                                                                      0 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   2                                                                                    1 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 5 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.50




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 5                    Driveway 5                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      1
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      1      0       3       0      4      0      0       0         0     0           0           0             8           0             0      0           1
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 5                    Driveway 5                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       4      2      6       0       2     3      5       0         0     1      1                 0            6          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.50                         0.50                           0.00                              0.50

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 5                    Driveway 5                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         1      0      3     4         2      0      0    2         0        0      0          0                  6
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.38    0.50    0.50   0.00   0.00   0.50    0.00     0.00   0.00         0.00             0.50



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 5                    Driveway 5                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      1
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      3      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      3       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          6            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                          2            5
                                                                                                                                             1   0     1
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.38
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     2                                                      3
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 1                                                                                      3 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   2                                                                                    1 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 6 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.50




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 6                    Driveway 6                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      1
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          4            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      1      0       1       0      2      0      0       0         0     0           3           0             7           0             0      0           1
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 6                    Driveway 6                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       2      5      7       0       2     1      3       0         3     1      4                 0            7          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.50                         0.50                           0.38                              0.44

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 6                    Driveway 6                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         1      0      1     2         2      0      0    2         0        0      3          3                  7
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.25    0.50    0.50   0.00   0.00   0.50    0.00     0.00   0.38         0.38             0.44



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 6                    Driveway 6                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      1
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0          7            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                          2            3
                                                                                                                                             0   0     2
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     1                                                      2
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 0                                                                                      2 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   1                                                                                    2 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 7 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.25




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 7                    Driveway 7                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      1
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      2      0       0       0      1      0      0       0         0     0           2           0             5           0             0      0           1
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 7                    Driveway 7                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       2      3      5       0       1     0      1       0         2     2      4                 0            5          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.50                         0.25                           0.50                              0.63

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 7                    Driveway 7                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         2      0      0     2         1      0      0    1         0        0      2          2                  5
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.50   0.00   0.00    0.50    0.25   0.00   0.00   0.25    0.00     0.00   0.50         0.50             0.63



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 7                    Driveway 7                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      1
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      2       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      2       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          5            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.67
                                                                                                                                          8           14
                                                                                                                                             3   0     5
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.75
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     8                                                      6
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 3                                                                                      6 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   8                                                                                    5 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 8 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.67




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 8                    Driveway 8                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      1
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      2       0      0       0      3      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          6            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      2       0      3      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          8            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM     0         0      0       0      2       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          3            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      6      0       3       0      8      0      0       0         0     0           9           0            26           0             0      0           1
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 8                    Driveway 8                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       8     14      22      0       8     3      11      0         6     5      11                0           22          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.67                         0.67                           0.75                              0.69

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 8                    Driveway 8                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         5      0      3     8         8      0      0    8         0        0      6          6                 22
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.63   0.00   0.38    0.67    0.67   0.00   0.00   0.67    0.00     0.00   0.75         0.75             0.69



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 8                    Driveway 8                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0          4            0               0      0      1
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      2       0      0       0      3      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          6            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      3       0      2       0      6      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0         14            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      5       0      3       0      7      0     0        0         0     0     4                  0         19            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      5       0      3       0      8      0     0        0         0     0     6                  0         22            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                          1            2
                                                                                                                                             1   0     0
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     2                                                      0
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 1                                                                                      0 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   2                                                                                    0 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 9 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.50




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              7:30 AM to 8:30 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 9                    Driveway 9                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      1
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      0      0       1       0      2      0      0       0         0     0           0           0             3           0             0      0           1
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:30 AM to 8:30 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 9                    Driveway 9                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       1      2      3       0       2     1      3       0         0     0      0                 0            3          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.25                         0.50                           0.00                              0.75

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 9                    Driveway 9                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         0      0      1     1         2      0      0    2         0        0      0          0                  3
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.25    0.25    0.50   0.00   0.00   0.50    0.00     0.00   0.00         0.00             0.75



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 9                    Driveway 9                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      1
 6:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                          1            3
                                                                                                                                             1   0     0
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                                 1

                                                                                                                     3                                                      0
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 1                                                                                      0 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   3                                                                                    0 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 10 & Hwy 126                                                                                       PHF 0.38




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              7:00 AM to 8:00 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 10                   Driveway 10                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               1      0      0
 6:15 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      1        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            1               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      0      0       1       0      6      0      0       0         0     0           0           0             7           1             1      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:00 AM to 8:00 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                     Driveway 10                   Driveway 10                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0       0       0       0       1      3      4       0       3     1      4       0         0     0      0                 0            4          1               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.25                         0.38                           0.00                              0.50

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                     Driveway 10                   Driveway 10                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T     R      Total     L      T     R      Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         0      0      1     1         3      0      0    3         0        0      0          0                  4
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.25    0.25    0.38   0.00   0.00   0.38    0.00     0.00   0.00         0.00             0.50



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 10                   Driveway 10                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               1      0      0
 6:15 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      1        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            1               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      1        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            1               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      1        0      3      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            1               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      1        0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            1               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      4      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      4      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      3      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                         In         Out




                                                                                                                         HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                        PHF 0.53
                                                                                                                                         17         16
                                                                                                                                         11          6
                                                                                                                                                                           HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                          PHF 0.63
                                                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                                    6                                                     10
                   Clay Carney                                                                  Out 11                                                                                10 In
                                                                                                                    0                                                     0




                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                           0
                 (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                 In   6                                                                                   6 Out


                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                            HV 0.0%
Driveway 11 & Hwy 126                                                                                      PHF 0.50




                                                                                                                                                                HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                               PHF 0.00
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                  Out          In
                                                                                                                                          0           0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                             Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                             7:45 AM to 8:45 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start            Driveway 11                   Driveway 11                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                        Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes    L             R      Bikes    L      T            Bikes             T     R                Bikes    Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM                             0      0             0        0      0      0              0               0     0                  0         0            0               1      0      0
 6:15 AM                             0      0             0        0      0      0              0               0     0                  0         0            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM                             0      0             0        0      0      0              0               0     0                  0         0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM                             0      0             0        0      2      0              0               0     4                  0         6            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM                             0      0             1        0      2      0              0               0     1                  0         4            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM                             0      0             0        0      0      0              0               0     1                  0         1            1               0      0      0
 7:30 AM                             0      0             0        0      0      0              0               0     1                  0         1            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM                             0      1             2        0      1      0              0               0     4                  0         8            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM                             0      2             6        0      3      0              0               0     4                  0        15            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM                             0      1             1        0      2      0              0               0     0                  0         4            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM                             0      2             2        0      0      0              0               0     2                  0         6            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM                             0      0             1        0      1      0              0               0     2                  0         4            0               0      0      0
   Total
                                     0      6             13       0      11     0              0               0          19           0           49           1             1      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:45 AM to 8:45 AM
                    Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   By
                    Driveway 11                   Driveway 11                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
            In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                   North          South East     West
 Volume      0       0       0       0      17     16      33      0       6    11      17      0         10    6      16                0          33          0               0      0      0
  %HV                   0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                             0.0%
  PHF                   0.00                          0.53                         0.50                           0.63                             0.55

                    Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                    Driveway 11                   Driveway 11                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                           Total
Movement
                                   Total     L             R     Total     L      T           Total              T     R           Total
 Volume                            0         6            11     17        6      0           6                  0     10          10               33
  %HV       NA       NA     NA     0.0%    0.0%    NA    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%   0.0%    NA    0.0%        NA   0.0% 0.0%           0.0%            0.0%
  PHF                              0.00    0.75          0.46    0.53    0.50   0.00          0.50             0.00   0.63         0.63            0.55



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start            Driveway 11                   Driveway 11                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                        Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes    L             R      Bikes    L      T            Bikes             T     R                Bikes    Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM                             0      0             0        0      2      0              0               0     4                  0         6            0               1      0      0
 6:15 AM                             0      0             1        0      4      0              0               0     5                  0        10            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM                             0      0             1        0      4      0              0               0     6                  0        11            1               0      0      0
 6:45 AM                             0      0             1        0      4      0              0               0     7                  0        12            1               0      0      0
 7:00 AM                             0      1             3        0      3      0              0               0     7                  0        14            1               0      0      0
 7:15 AM                             0      3             8        0      4      0              0               0     10                 0        25            1               0      0      0
 7:30 AM                             0      4             9        0      6      0              0               0     9                  0        28            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM                             0      6             11       0      6      0              0               0     10                 0        33            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM                             0      5             10       0      6      0              0               0      8                 0        29            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.75
                                                                                                                                          24          14
                                                                                                                                          13     0     11
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.63
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     9                                                      5
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 13                                                                                     5 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   9                                                                                11 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 12 & Hwy 126                                                                                       PHF 0.45




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              7:30 AM to 8:30 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 12                   Driveway 12                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0        0      0        0      2      0      0        0      5      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          8            1               0      0      0
 6:15 AM     0        0      0        0      3      0      1        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          6            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0        0      0        0      1      0      2        0      3      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          7            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      2        0      4      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          7            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0        0      0        0      1      0      2        0      2      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          6            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0        0      0        0      1      0      4        0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          7            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0        0      0        0      5      0      2        0      3      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0         10            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0        0      0        0      3      0      5        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0         10            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0        0      0        0      1      0      5        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          8            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM     0        0      0        0      2      0      1        0      5      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0         10            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM     0        0      0        0      1      0      1        0      2      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      21     0      25       0      29     0      0       0         0     0          12           0            87           1             0      0          0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:30 AM to 8:30 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                     Driveway 12                   Driveway 12                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0       0       0       0      24     14      38      0       9    13      22      0          5   11      16                0           38          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.75                         0.45                           0.63                              0.95

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                     Driveway 12                   Driveway 12                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T     R      Total     L      T     R      Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0        11      0     13     24        9      0      0    9         0        0      5          5                 38
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.55   0.00   0.65    0.75    0.45   0.00   0.00   0.45    0.00     0.00   0.63         0.63             0.95



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 12                   Driveway 12                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0        0      0        0       6     0       5       0      13     0     0        0         0     0     4                  0         28            1               0      0      0
 6:15 AM     0        0      0        0       5     0       7       0      10     0     0        0         0     0     4                  0         26            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0        0      0        0       3     0      10       0      11     0     0        0         0     0     3                  0         27            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0        0      0        0       7     0      10       0      11     0     0        0         0     0     2                  0         30            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0        0      0        0      10     0      13       0      8      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0         33            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0        0      0        0      10     0      16       0      6      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0         35            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0        0      0        0      11     0      13       0      9      0     0        0         0     0     5                  0         38            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0        0      0        0       7     0      12       0      8      0     0        0         0     0     6                  0         33            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0        0      0        0      5      0      7        0      8      0     0        0         0     0     6                  0         26            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.75
                                                                                                                                          3            1
                                                                                                                                             0   0     3
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     1                                                      0
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 0                                                                                      0 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   1                                                                                    3 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 13 & Hwy 126                                                                                       PHF 0.25




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              7:30 AM to 8:30 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 13                   Driveway 13                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            1               0      0      0
 6:15 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 8:15 AM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 8:30 AM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 8:45 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      4      0       0       0      2      0      0       0         0     0           1           0             7           1             0      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:30 AM to 8:30 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                     Driveway 13                   Driveway 13                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0       0       0       0       3      1      4       0       1     0      1       0         0     3      3                 0            4          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.75                         0.25                           0.00                              0.50

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                     Driveway 13                   Driveway 13                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T     R      Total     L      T     R      Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         3      0      0     3         1      0      0    1         0        0      0          0                  4
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.75   0.00   0.00    0.75    0.25   0.00   0.00   0.25    0.00     0.00   0.00         0.00             0.50



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 13                   Driveway 13                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 6:00 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            1               0      0      0
 6:15 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 6:30 AM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 6:45 AM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:00 AM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 7:15 AM     0        0      0        0      2      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 7:30 AM     0        0      0        0      3      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 7:45 AM     0        0      0        0      3      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 8:00 AM     0        0      0        0      3      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                      In        Out




                                                                                                                     HV 2.9%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                    PHF 0.75
                                                                                                                                     105        27
                                                                                                                                     14          91
                                                                                                                                                                       HV 8.7%
                                                                                                                                                                      PHF 0.83
                                                                                                                                           0

                                                                                                               15                                                     12
                   Clay Carney                                                                  Out 232                                                                         230 In
                                                                                                              679                                                     218




                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                                       0
                 (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                 In   694                                                                       770 Out


                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                         HV 2.9%
Ellmaker Rd & Hwy 126                                                                                   PHF 0.78




                                                                                                                                                            HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                           PHF 0.00
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                              Out          In
                                                                                                                                      0           0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                         Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                         7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                 Pedestrians
   Start            Ellmaker Rd                   Ellmaker Rd                     Hwy 126                     Hwy 126                      Interval                     Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes     L             R     Bikes    L      T            Bikes           T     R              Bikes    Total          North       South East    West
 6:00 AM                             0      12             2       0      0     68              0            22     1                0       105            0            0      0     0
 6:15 AM                             0      23             3       0      1     100             0            21     2                0       150            0            0      0     0
 6:30 AM                             0      21             2       0      2     115             0            25     2                0       167            0            0      0     0
 6:45 AM                             0      21             4       0      1     124             0            28     1                0       179            0            0      0     0
 7:00 AM                             0      25             2       0      3     150             0            23     4                0       207            0            0      0     0
 7:15 AM                             0      30             5       0      4     177             0            49     1                0       266            0            0      0     3
 7:30 AM                             0      24             5       0      2     221             0            62     7                0       321            0            0      0     0
 7:45 AM                             0      18             2       0      4     144             0            52     2                0       222            0            0      0     0
 8:00 AM                             0      19             2       0      5     137             0            55     2                0       220            0            0      0     0
 8:15 AM                             0      17             3       0      2     138             0            61     7                0       228            0            0      0     0
 8:30 AM                             0      19             3       0      2     101             0            64     4                0       193            0            0      0     0
 8:45 AM                             0       9            12       0      4      89             0            72     7                0       193            0            0      0     0
   Total
                                     0     238            45       0      30    1,564           0            534       40           0          2,451         0              0    0        3
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
                    Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                 Pedestrians
   By
                    Ellmaker Rd                   Ellmaker Rd                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                          Total                    Crosswalk
Approach
            In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total           Bikes                   North       South East    West
 Volume      0       0       0       0     105     27     132      0     694    232    926      0      230   770 1,000               0         1,029        0            0      0     3
  %HV                   0.0%                          2.9%                         2.9%                         8.7%                           4.2%
  PHF                   0.00                          0.75                         0.78                         0.83                           0.80

                    Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                    Ellmaker Rd                   Ellmaker Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                         Total
Movement
                                   Total     L             R     Total     L      T           Total            T     R         Total
 Volume                            0        91            14     105      15     679          694             218    12        230             1,029
  %HV       NA       NA     NA     0.0%    1.1%    NA 14.3%      2.9%    6.7%   2.8%    NA    2.9%     NA    8.7% 8.3%         8.7%            4.2%
  PHF                              0.00    0.76          0.70    0.75    0.75   0.77          0.78           0.88   0.43       0.83            0.80



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                 Pedestrians
   Start            Ellmaker Rd                   Ellmaker Rd                    Hwy 126                       Hwy 126                     Interval                     Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes    L              R     Bikes    L      T            Bikes           T      R             Bikes    Total          North       South East    West
 6:00 AM                             0     77             11       0      4     407             0             96      6              0       601            0            0      0     0
 6:15 AM                             0     90             11       0      7     489             0             97      9              0       703            0            0      0     0
 6:30 AM                             0     97             13       0      10    566             0            125      8              0       819            0            0      0     3
 6:45 AM                             0     100            16       0      10    672             0            162     13              0       973            0            0      0     3
 7:00 AM                             0     97             14       0      13    692             0            186     14              0      1,016           0            0      0     3
 7:15 AM                             0     91             14       0      15    679             0            218     12              0      1,029           0            0      0     3
 7:30 AM                             0     78             12       0      13    640             0            230     18              0       991            0            0      0     0
 7:45 AM                             0     73             10       0      13    520             0            232     15              0       863            0            0      0     0
 8:00 AM                             0      64            20       0      13    465             0            252     20              0       834            0            0      0     0
                                                                                                                                    In          Out




                                                                                                                    HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                   PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                    1            0
                                                                                                                                       1         0
                                                                                                                                                                       HV 9.3%
                                                                                                                                                                      PHF 0.87
                                                                                                                                           0

                                                                                                               0                                                      0
                   Clay Carney                                                                 Out 227                                                                           226 In
                                                                                                             770                                                      226




                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                       0
                 (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                In   770                                                                         770 Out


                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                        HV 3.0%
Shady Rest Dr & Hwy 126                                                                                PHF 0.76




                                                                                                                                                            HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                           PHF 0.00
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                             Out           In
                                                                                                                                     0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                        Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                        7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                   Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   Start           Shady Rest Dr                 Shady Rest Dr                  Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                       Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes    L             R    Bikes     L      T            Bikes           T     R              Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 6:00 AM                             0      0             0      0       0     82              0            21     0                0        103            0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM                             0      0             1      0       0     118             0            24     0                0        143            0               0      0     0
 6:30 AM                             0      0             0      0       0     136             0            28     0                0        164            0               0      0     0
 6:45 AM                             0      0             0      0       0     146             0            27     0                0        173            0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM                             0      0             0      0       0     170             0            28     0                0        198            0               0      0     0
 7:15 AM                             0      0             0      0       0     200             0            52     0                0        252            0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM                             0      0             0      0       0     254             0            65     0                0        319            0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM                             0      0             0      0       0     162             0            53     0                0        215            0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM                             0      0             1      0       0     154             0            56     0                0        211            0               0      0     0
 8:15 AM                             0      0             1      0       1     155             0            67     0                0        224            0               0      0     0
 8:30 AM                             0      1             0      0       0     123             0            68     0                0        192            0               0      0     0
 8:45 AM                             0      0             0      0       0     100             0            77     0                0        177            0               0      0     0
   Total
                                     0      1             3       0      1     1,800           0            566        0           0           2,371         0              0     0        0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
                    Northbound                   Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   By
                   Shady Rest Dr                 Shady Rest Dr                  Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
            In      Out   Total Bikes       In    Out   Total Bikes      In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total           Bikes                    North          South East    West
 Volume      0       0      0     0          1     0      1     0       770    227    997      0      226   770    996              0           997         0               0      0     0
  %HV                  0.0%                          0.0%                         3.0%                         9.3%                            4.4%
  PHF                  0.00                          0.25                         0.76                         0.87                            0.78

                    Northbound                  Southbound                      Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                   Shady Rest Dr                Shady Rest Dr                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                          Total
Movement
                                   Total     L           R      Total     L      T           Total            T     R         Total
 Volume                            0         0           1      1         0     770          770             226     0        226               997
  %HV       NA       NA     NA     0.0%    0.0%  NA    0.0%     0.0%    0.0%   3.0%    NA    3.0%     NA    9.3% 0.0%         9.3%             4.4%
  PHF                              0.00    0.00        0.25     0.25    0.00   0.76          0.76           0.87   0.00       0.87             0.78



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                   Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   Start           Shady Rest Dr                 Shady Rest Dr                  Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                       Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes    L             R    Bikes     L      T            Bikes           T     R              Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 6:00 AM                             0      0             1      0       0     482             0            100    0                0        583            0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM                             0      0             1      0       0     570             0            107    0                0        678            0               0      0     0
 6:30 AM                             0      0             0      0       0     652             0            135    0                0        787            0               0      0     0
 6:45 AM                             0      0             0      0       0     770             0            172    0                0        942            0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM                             0      0             0      0       0     786             0            198    0                0        984            0               0      0     0
 7:15 AM                             0      0             1      0       0     770             0            226    0                0        997            0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM                             0      0             2      0       1     725             0            241    0                0        969            0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM                             0      1             2      0       1     594             0            244    0                0        842            0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM                             0      1             2      0       1     532             0            268    0                0        804            0               0      0     0
                                                                                                                                     In          Out




                                                                                                                     HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                    PHF 0.58
                                                                                                                                     7            2
                                                                                                                                        4         3
                                                                                                                                                                        HV 9.9%
                                                                                                                                                                       PHF 0.84
                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                2                                                      0
                   Clay Carney                                                                  Out 226                                                                           222 In
                                                                                                              784                                                      222




                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                        0
                 (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                 In   786                                                                         787 Out


                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                         HV 2.7%
Lake Side Dr & Hwy 126                                                                                  PHF 0.83




                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                              Out           In
                                                                                                                                      0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                         Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                         7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   Start            Lake Side Dr                  Lake Side Dr                   Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                       Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes    L              R     Bikes    L      T            Bikes           T     R              Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 6:00 AM                             0      0              0       0      0     87              0            21     0                0        108            0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM                             0      0              0       0      0     114             0            25     1                0        140            0               0      0     0
 6:30 AM                             0      0              0       0      0     135             0            27     0                0        162            0               0      0     0
 6:45 AM                             0      1              0       0      0     133             0            28     0                0        162            0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM                             0      0              0       0      0     170             0            28     0                0        198            0               0      0     0
 7:15 AM                             0      2              1       0      1     211             0            49     0                0        264            0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM                             0      1              0       0      0     238             0            66     0                0        305            0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM                             0      0              2       0      0     178             0            53     0                0        233            0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM                             0      0              1       0      1     157             0            54     0                0        213            0               0      0     0
 8:15 AM                             0      0              0       0      1     149             0            62     0                0        212            0               0      0     0
 8:30 AM                             0      1              1       0      0     128             0            69     0                0        199            0               0      0     0
 8:45 AM                             0      0              0       0      0     102             0            78     0                0        180            0               0      0     0
   Total
                                     0      5              5       0      3     1,802           0            560        1           0           2,376         0              0     0        0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
                    Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   By
                    Lake Side Dr                  Lake Side Dr                   Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
            In       Out   Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total           Bikes                    North          South East    West
 Volume      0        0      0       0       7      2      9       0     786    226 1,012       0      222   787 1,009               0          1,015        0               0      0     0
  %HV                   0.0%                          0.0%                         2.7%                         9.9%                            4.2%
  PHF                   0.00                          0.58                         0.83                         0.84                            0.83

                    Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                    Lake Side Dr                  Lake Side Dr                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                          Total
Movement
                                   Total     L             R     Total     L      T           Total            T     R         Total
 Volume                            0         3              4    7         2     784          786             222     0        222              1,015
  %HV       NA       NA     NA     0.0%    0.0%    NA    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%   2.7%    NA    2.7%     NA    9.9% 0.0%         9.9%             4.2%
  PHF                              0.00    0.38           0.50   0.58    0.50   0.82          0.83           0.84   0.00       0.84             0.83



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   Start            Lake Side Dr                  Lake Side Dr                   Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                       Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes    L              R     Bikes    L      T            Bikes           T     R              Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 6:00 AM                             0      1              0       0      0     469             0            101    1                0        572            0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM                             0      1              0       0      0     552             0            108    1                0        662            0               0      0     0
 6:30 AM                             0      3              1       0      1     649             0            132    0                0        786            0               0      0     0
 6:45 AM                             0      4              1       0      1     752             0            171    0                0        929            0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM                             0      3              3       0      1     797             0            196    0                0       1,000           0               0      0     0
 7:15 AM                             0      3              4       0      2     784             0            222    0                0       1,015           0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM                             0      1              3       0      2     722             0            235    0                0        963            0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM                             0      1              4       0      2     612             0            238    0                0        857            0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM                             0      1              2       0      2     536             0            263    0                0        804            0               0      0     0
                                                                                                                                      In          Out




                                                                                                                      HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                     PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                      0            0
                                                                                                                                         0   0     0
                                                                                                                                                                         HV 8.2%
                                                                                                                                                                        PHF 0.80
                                                                                                                                             0

                                                                                                                 0                                                      0
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 205                                                                           233 In
                                                                                                               790                                                      202




                                                                                                                                2




                                                                                                                                                         0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   796                                                                         925 Out
                                                                                                                 6                                                      31

                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                          HV 2.6%
Central Rd & Hwy 126                                                                                     PHF 0.78




                                                                                                                                                              HV 1.4%
                                                                                                                                                             PHF 0.93
                                                                                                                                         3   0     135
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                               Out           In
                                                                                                                                      37           138
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                          Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                          7:00 AM to 8:00 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   Start              Central Rd                    Central Rd                     Hwy 126                     Hwy 126                       Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T       R     Bikes    L      T       R     Bikes    L      T      R     Bikes    L      T     R              Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 6:00 AM     2         0      19      0      0       0       0      0      0      81     0       0      6     19     0                0        127            0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM     1         0      17      0      0       0       0      0      0     116     1       0      8     22     0                0        165            0               0      0     0
 6:30 AM     2         0      31      0      0       0       0      0      0     132     0       0      7     25     0                0        197            0               0      0     0
 6:45 AM     0         0      32      0      0       0       0      0      0     136     2       0      14    28     0                0        212            0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM     0         0      35      0      0       0       0      0      0     175     1       0      7     32     0                0        250            0               0      0     2
 7:15 AM     0         0      37      0      0       0       0      0      0     198     4       0      8     50     0                0        297            0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM     0         0      33      0      0       0       0      0      0     253     1       0      7     66     0                0        360            0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM     3         0      30      0      0       0       0      0      0     164     0       0      9     54     0                0        260            0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM     3         0      29      0      0       0       0      0      0     152     3       0      4     54     0                0        245            0               0      0     0
 8:15 AM     2         0      20      0      0       0       0      0      0     152     3       0      7     62     0                0        246            0               0      0     0
 8:30 AM     1         0      24      0      0       0       0      0      0     118     3       0      10    60     0                0        216            0               0      0     0
 8:45 AM     4         0      21      0      0       0       0      0      1     104     0       0      4     77     0                0        211            0               0      0     0
   Total
             18       0     328       0      0      0       0       0      1     1,781   18      0      91    549        0           0           2,786         0              0     0        2
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:00 AM to 8:00 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   By
                      Central Rd                    Central Rd                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total           Bikes                    North          South East    West
 Volume     138       37     175      0       0      0       0      0     796    205 1,001       0      233   925 1,158               0          1,167        0               0      0     2
  %HV                    1.4%                          0.0%                         2.6%                         8.2%                            3.6%
  PHF                    0.93                          0.00                         0.78                         0.80                            0.81

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                      Central Rd                    Central Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                          Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L      T     R         Total
 Volume       3        0     135    138       0      0       0    0         0     790     6    796      31     202     0        233              1,167
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 1.5%      1.4%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   2.5% 16.7%    2.6%    3.2%   8.9% 0.0%         8.2%             3.6%
  PHF       0.25     0.00    0.91   0.93    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.78   0.38   0.78    0.86   0.77   0.00       0.80             0.81



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   Start              Central Rd                    Central Rd                    Hwy 126                       Hwy 126                      Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time       L       T       R     Bikes    L      T       R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes    L      T      R             Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 6:00 AM      5        0      99      0      0       0       0      0      0     465    3        0      35     94     0               0        701            0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM      3        0     115      0      0       0       0      0      0     559    4        0      36    107     0               0        824            0               0      0     2
 6:30 AM      2        0     135      0      0       0       0      0      0     641    7        0      36    135     0               0        956            0               0      0     2
 6:45 AM      0        0     137      0      0       0       0      0      0     762    8        0      36    176     0               0       1,119           0               0      0     2
 7:00 AM      3        0     135      0      0       0       0      0      0     790    6        0      31    202     0               0       1,167           0               0      0     2
 7:15 AM      6        0     129      0      0       0       0      0      0     767    8        0      28    224     0               0       1,162           0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM      8        0     112      0      0       0       0      0      0     721    7        0      27    236     0               0       1,111           0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM      9        0     103      0      0       0       0      0      0     586    9        0      30    230     0               0        967            0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM     10        0      94      0      0       0       0      0      1     526    9        0      25    253     0               0        918            0               0      0     0
                                                                                                                                      In         Out




                                                                                                                      HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                     PHF 0.69
                                                                                                                                      44         63
                                                                                                                                      42          2
                                                                                                                                                                        HV 12.1%
                                                                                                                                                                       PHF 0.72
                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                63                                                     0
                   Clay Carney                                                                  Out 249                                                                           207 In
                                                                                                               860                                                     207




                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                        0
                 (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                 In   923                                                                         862 Out


                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                         HV 2.3%
Fisher Rd & Hwy 126                                                                                     PHF 0.82




                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                               Out          In
                                                                                                                                       0           0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                          Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                          7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   Start             Fisher Rd                     Fisher Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                       Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes    L              R     Bikes    L      T            Bikes           T     R               Bikes    Total          North          South East    West
 6:00 AM                             0      0              3       0      6     90              0            23     0                 0       122            0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM                             0      0              7       0      13    113             0            21     0                 0       154            0               0      0     0
 6:30 AM                             0      0              7       0      14    152             0            30     2                 0       205            0               0      0     0
 6:45 AM                             0      0              7       0      14    147             0            35     2                 0       205            0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM                             0      0              7       0      8     178             0            33     0                 0       226            0               0      0     0
 7:15 AM                             0      2             11       0      17    237             0            47     0                 0       314            0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM                             0      0              7       0      24    259             0            72     0                 0       362            0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM                             0      0             16       0      11    195             0            42     0                 0       264            0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM                             0      0              8       0      11    169             0            46     0                 0       234            0               0      0     0
 8:15 AM                             0      0              9       0      18    150             0            64     0                 0       241            0               0      0     0
 8:30 AM                             0      1              8       0      12    148             0            73     0                 0       242            0               0      0     0
 8:45 AM                             0      1             10       0       3    119             0            63     1                 0       197            0               0      0     0
   Total
                                     0      4            100       0     151    1,957           0             549        5           0          2,766         0              0     0        0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
                    Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   By
                     Fisher Rd                     Fisher Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
            In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total            Bikes                   North          South East    West
 Volume      0       0       0       0      44     63     107      0     923    249 1,172       0      207   862 1,069                0         1,174        0               0      0     0
  %HV                  0.0%                           0.0%                         2.3%                        12.1%                            3.9%
  PHF                   0.00                          0.69                         0.82                         0.72                            0.81

                    Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                    Westbound
   By
                     Fisher Rd                     Fisher Rd                      Hwy 126                       Hwy 126                         Total
Movement
                                   Total     L             R     Total     L      T           Total            T      R         Total
 Volume                            0         2             42    44       63     860          923             207      0        207             1,174
  %HV       NA       NA     NA     0.0%    0.0%    NA    0.0%    0.0%    3.2%   2.2%    NA    2.3%     NA    12.1% 0.0%         12.1%           3.9%
  PHF                              0.00    0.25           0.66   0.69    0.66   0.83          0.82            0.72   0.00       0.72            0.81



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   Start             Fisher Rd                     Fisher Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                       Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes    L              R     Bikes    L      T            Bikes           T     R               Bikes    Total          North          South East    West
 6:00 AM                             0      0             24       0      47    502             0            109    4                 0       686            0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM                             0      0             28       0      49    590             0            119    4                 0       790            0               0      0     0
 6:30 AM                             0      2             32       0      53    714             0            145    4                 0       950            0               0      0     0
 6:45 AM                             0      2             32       0      63    821             0            187    2                 0      1,107           0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM                             0      2             41       0      60    869             0            194    0                 0      1,166           0               0      0     0
 7:15 AM                             0      2             42       0      63    860             0            207    0                 0      1,174           0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM                             0      0             40       0      64    773             0            224    0                 0      1,101           0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM                             0      1             41       0      52    662             0            225    0                 0       981            0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM                             0      2             35       0      44    586             0            246    1                 0       914            0               0      0     0
                                                                                                                      HV 25.0%
                                                                                                                                       In          Out
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                     PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                       4            1
                                                                                                                                          0         4
                                                                                                                                                                          HV 12.0%
                                                                                                                                                                         PHF 0.78
                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                 0                                                       1
                   Clay Carney                                                                  Out 207                                                                             208 In
                                                                                                              860                                                        207




                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                          0
                 (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                 In   860                                                                           864 Out


                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                         HV 2.3%
Richmond St & Hwy 126                                                                                   PHF 0.84




                                                                                                                                                               HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                              PHF 0.00
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                Out           In
                                                                                                                                        0            0
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                           Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                           7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                   Southbound                     Eastbound                    Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start            Richmond St                  Richmond St                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes     L           R       Bikes    L      T            Bikes           T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 6:00 AM                             0       0           0         0      0     87              0            27     0                  0        114            0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM                             0       0           0         0      0     106             0            21     0                  0        127            0               0      0     0
 6:30 AM                             0       0           0         0      0     153             0            27     0                  0        180            0               0      0     0
 6:45 AM                             0       1           0         0      0     153             0            38     0                  0        192            0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM                             0       1           0         0      0     177             0            30     0                  0        208            0               0      0     0
 7:15 AM                             0       0           0         0      0     234             0            46     0                  0        280            0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM                             0       2           0         0      0     255             0            66     1                  0        324            0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM                             0       1           0         0      0     206             0            48     0                  0        255            0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM                             0       1           0         0      0     165             0            47     0                  0        213            0               0      0     0
 8:15 AM                             0       0           0         0      0     160             0            60     0                  0        220            0               0      0     0
 8:30 AM                             0       2           0         0      0     142             0            71     0                  0        215            0               0      0     0
 8:45 AM                             0       0           0         0      0     133             0            66     0                  0        199            0               0      0     0
   Total
                                     0       8            0        0      0     1,971           0             547         1           0           2,527         0              0     0        0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
                    Northbound                   Southbound                     Eastbound                    Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                    Richmond St                  Richmond St                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
            In      Out    Total   Bikes    In    Out    Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East    West
 Volume      0       0       0       0       4     1       5       0     860    207 1,067       0      208   864 1,072                 0          1,072        0               0      0     0
  %HV                  0.0%                          25.0%                         2.3%                        12.0%                              4.3%
  PHF                   0.00                          0.50                         0.84                         0.78                              0.83

                    Northbound                   Southbound                      Eastbound                    Westbound
   By
                    Richmond St                  Richmond St                      Hwy 126                       Hwy 126                           Total
Movement
                                   Total      L          R       Total     L      T           Total            T      R          Total
 Volume                            0          4          0       4         0     860          860             207      1         208              1,072
  %HV       NA       NA     NA     0.0%    25.0% NA    0.0%      25.0%   0.0%   2.3%    NA    2.3%     NA    11.6% #####         12.0%            4.3%
  PHF                              0.00     0.50       0.00      0.50    0.00   0.84          0.84            0.78   0.25        0.78             0.83



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                   Southbound                     Eastbound                    Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start            Richmond St                  Richmond St                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes     L           R       Bikes    L      T            Bikes           T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 6:00 AM                             0       1           0         0      0     499             0            113    0                  0        613            0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM                             0       2           0         0      0     589             0            116    0                  0        707            0               0      0     0
 6:30 AM                             0       2           0         0      0     717             0            141    0                  0        860            0               0      0     0
 6:45 AM                             0       4           0         0      0     819             0            180    1                  0       1,004           0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM                             0       4           0         0      0     872             0            190    1                  0       1,067           0               0      0     0
 7:15 AM                             0       4           0         0      0     860             0            207    1                  0       1,072           0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM                             0       4           0         0      0     786             0            221    1                  0       1,012           0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM                             0       4           0         0      0     673             0            226    0                  0        903            0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM                             0       3           0         0      0     600             0            244    0                  0        847            0               0      0     0
                                                                                                                                   In          Out




                                                                                                                   HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                  PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                   0            0


                                                                                                                                                                      HV 12.4%
                                                                                                                                                                     PHF 0.74
                                                                                                                                          0


                    Clay Carney                                                               Out 202                                                                           202 In
                                                                                                            858                                                      202




                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                      0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                               In   859                                                                         861 Out
                                                                                                              1                                                      0

                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                       HV 2.4%
Ken Neilsen Rd & Hwy 126                                                                              PHF 0.89




                                                                                                                                                           HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                          PHF 0.38
                                                                                                                                      0         3
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                            Out           In
                                                                                                                                    1            3
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                       Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                       7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                  Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   Start           Ken Neilsen Rd              Ken Neilsen Rd                   Hwy 126                     Hwy 126                       Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L               R    Bikes                         Bikes          T      R     Bikes     L     T                    Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 6:00 AM     0               0      0                             0            94     0       0       0    23                      0        117            0               0      0     0
 6:15 AM     0               0      0                             0            97     0       0       0    22                      0        119            0               0      0     0
 6:30 AM     0               0      0                             0           127     0       0       3    27                      0        157            0               2      0     0
 6:45 AM     0               0      0                             0           161     0       0       1    40                      0        202            0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM     0               0      0                             0           175     0       0       0    28                      0        203            0               0      0     0
 7:15 AM     0               0      0                             0           211     1       0       0    47                      0        259            0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM     0               0      0                             0           242     0       0       0    68                      0        310            0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM     0               2      0                             0           239     0       0       0    42                      0        283            0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM     0               1      0                             0           166     0       0       0    45                      0        212            0               0      0     0
 8:15 AM     0               1      0                             0           156     0       0       0    68                      0        225            0               0      0     0
 8:30 AM     0               0      0                             0           145     0       0       1    63                      0        209            0               0      0     0
 8:45 AM     0               0      0                             0           127     0       0       0    64                      0        191            0               0      0     0
   Total
             0                4    0                              0           1,940   1       0       5    537                    0           2,487         0              2     0        0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
                    Northbound                  Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   By
                   Ken Neilsen Rd              Ken Neilsen Rd                  Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In     Out     Total Bikes   In     Out    Total Bikes      In   Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total           Bikes                    North          South East    West
 Volume       3      1       4      0      0      0      0      0       859   202 1,061       0      202   861 1,063               0          1,064        0               0      0     0
  %HV                  0.0%                         0.0%                         2.4%                        12.4%                            4.3%
  PHF                   0.38                        0.00                         0.89                         0.74                            0.86

                  Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                  Westbound
   By
                 Ken Neilsen Rd                Ken Neilsen Rd                   Hwy 126                     Hwy 126                           Total
Movement
              L             R   Total                           Total           T     R     Total     L    T                 Total
 Volume       0             3   3                               0              858    1     859       0   202                202              1,064
  %HV       0.0%   NA     0.0% 0.0%       NA     NA     NA      0.0%    NA    2.4% 0.0%     2.4%    0.0% 12.4% NA            12.4%            4.3%
  PHF       0.00          0.38 0.38                             0.00          0.89   0.25   0.89    0.00  0.74               0.74              0.86



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval           Northbound                  Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   Start           Ken Neilsen Rd              Ken Neilsen Rd                  Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                       Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L               R    Bikes                         Bikes          T     R      Bikes     L     T                    Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 6:00 AM     0               0      0                             0           479    0        0       4    112                     0        595            0               2      0     0
 6:15 AM     0               0      0                             0           560    0        0       4    117                     0        681            0               2      0     0
 6:30 AM     0               0      0                             0           674    1        0       4    142                     0        821            0               2      0     0
 6:45 AM     0               0      0                             0           789    1        0       1    183                     0        974            0               0      0     0
 7:00 AM     0               2      0                             0           867    1        0       0    185                     0       1,055           0               0      0     0
 7:15 AM     0               3      0                             0           858    1        0       0    202                     0       1,064           0               0      0     0
 7:30 AM     0               4      0                             0           803    0        0       0    223                     0       1,030           0               0      0     0
 7:45 AM     0               4      0                             0           706    0        0       1    218                     0        929            0               0      0     0
 8:00 AM     0               2      0                             0           594    0        0       1    240                     0        837            0               0      0     0
                                                                                                                                       In          Out




                                                                                                                       HV 6.7%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                      PHF 0.59
                                                                                                                                       89          95
                                                                                                                                          4   21    64
                                                                                                                                                                          HV 13.9%
                                                                                                                                                                         PHF 0.74
                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                 27                                                      33
                     Clay Carney                                                                  Out 202                                                                           251 In
                                                                                                                842                                                      193




                                                                                                                                 1




                                                                                                                                                          0
                   (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                   In   871                                                                        1,040 Out
                                                                                                                  2                                                      25

                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                           HV 2.2%
Green Hill Rd & Hwy 126                                                                                   PHF 0.86




                                                                                                                                                               HV 4.0%
                                                                                                                                                              PHF 0.93
                                                                                                                                          5   35    134
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                Out           In
                                                                                                                                       48           174
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                           Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                           7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
15-Minute Interval Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                    Westbound                                                  Pedestrians
   Start             Green Hill Rd                 Green Hill Rd                    Hwy 126                     Hwy 126                       Interval                     Crosswalk
   Time       L        T       R     Bikes    L      T       R     Bikes    L      T      R     Bikes    L      T     R              Bikes     Total          North       South East      West
 6:00 AM      0        0       0       0       1     0       3       0      0      92     0       0       2    20      1               0        119            0            0      0       0
 6:15 AM      0        2       7       0       3     3       1       0      4      93     0       0       6    19      2               0        140            0            0      0       1
 6:30 AM      0       10      21       0       4     3       4       0      1     129     0       0       5    28      6               0        211            0            0      0       0
 6:45 AM      0        9      30       0      13     3       2       0      8     164     0       0       2    33      3               0        267            1            0      0       1
 7:00 AM      2        8      25       0       7     7       0       0      1     177     0       0       2    31      2               0        262            0            0      0       0
 7:15 AM      1        6      33       0       7     3       0       0      5     200     0       0       4    40      7               0        306            0            0      0       0
 7:30 AM      0       10      32       0      13     7       1       0      7     245     0       0       4    72      9               0        400            0            0      0       1
 7:45 AM      4        8      33       0      28    10       0       0      9     235     2       0      10    38     11               0        388            0            0      0       0
 8:00 AM      0       11      36       0      16     1       3       0      6     162     0       0       7    43      6               0        291            0            0      0       0
 8:15 AM      1       11      29       0       6     6       5       0      2     155     1       0      15    60      4               0        295            0            0      0       0
 8:30 AM      1        9      19       0      15     2      10       0      6     142     0       0       9    65      4               0        282            0            0      0       0
 8:45 AM      0        7      26       0      10     7       5       0      3     130     1       0      10    56     13               0        268            0            0      0       0
   Total
              9        91    291       0     123    52      34       0      52    1,924   4       0      76    505       68           0           3,229         1              0     0         3
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
7:15 AM to 8:15 AM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound                                                 Pedestrians
   By
                     Green Hill Rd                 Green Hill Rd                   Hwy 126                       Hwy 126                          Total                    Crosswalk
Approach
              In      Out   Total    Bikes    In    Out   Total    Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In    Out   Total          Bikes                    North       South East      West
 Volume      174      48     222       0      89    95     184       0     871    202 1,073       0      251   1,040 1,291             0          1,385        0            0      0       1
  %HV                    4.0%                          6.7%                          2.2%                         13.9%                           4.8%
  PHF                    0.93                          0.59                          0.86                          0.74                           0.87

                  Northbound                      Southbound                       Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                  Green Hill Rd                   Green Hill Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                          Total
Movement
               L    T       R        Total     L    T       R      Total     L      T     R     Total      L    T      R         Total
 Volume        5   35     134        174      64    21      4      89       27     842     2    871       25   193     33        251              1,385
  %HV       20.0% 2.9% 3.7%          4.0%    1.6% 23.8% 0.0%       6.7%    0.0%   2.3% 0.0%     2.2%    24.0% 13.0% 12.1%        13.9%            4.8%
  PHF        0.31 0.80   0.93        0.93    0.57  0.53  0.33      0.59    0.75   0.86   0.25   0.86     0.63  0.67   0.75       0.74             0.87



Rolling Hour Summary
6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                    Westbound                                                  Pedestrians
   Start             Green Hill Rd                 Green Hill Rd                   Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                       Interval                     Crosswalk
   Time       L        T       R     Bikes    L      T       R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes    L      T     R              Bikes     Total          North       South East      West
 6:00 AM      0       21      58       0      21     9      10       0      13    478    0        0      15    100    12               0        737            1            0      0       2
 6:15 AM      2       29      83       0      27    16       7       0      14    563    0        0      15    111    13               0        880            1            0      0       2
 6:30 AM      3       33     109       0      31    16       6       0      15    670    0        0      13    132    18               0       1,046           1            0      0       1
 6:45 AM      3       33     120       0      40    20       3       0      21    786    0        0      12    176    21               0       1,235           1            0      0       2
 7:00 AM      7       32     123       0      55    27       1       0      22    857    2        0      20    181    29               0       1,356           0            0      0       1
 7:15 AM      5       35     134       0      64    21       4       0      27    842    2        0      25    193    33               0       1,385           0            0      0       1
 7:30 AM      5       40     130       0      63    24       9       0      24    797    3        0      36    213    30               0       1,374           0            0      0       1
 7:45 AM      6       39     117       0      65    19      18       0      23    694    3        0      41    206    25               0       1,256           0            0      0       0
 8:00 AM      2       38     110       0      47    16      23       0      17    589    2        0      41    224    27               0       1,136           0            0      0       0
    P.M. Peak Hour Turn Movement Counts




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan    P09042019 
                                                                                                                      HV 10.3%
                                                                                                                                       In         Out
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                     PHF 0.56
                                                                                                                                       29         34
                                                                                                                                       16    6     7
                                                                                                                                                                         HV 1.8%
                                                                                                                                                                        PHF 0.91
                                                                                                                                             1

                                                                                                               13                                                       17
                    Clay Carney                                                                 Out 618                                                                           733 In
                                                                                                              312                                                       587




                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                         2
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                 In   345                                                                         363 Out
                                                                                                               20                                                       129

                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                         HV 4.3%
Huston Rd & Hwy 126                                                                                     PHF 0.81




                                                                                                                                                              HV 3.2%
                                                                                                                                                             PHF 0.83
                                                                                                                                       15    4     44
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                Out         In
                                                                                                                                       155         63
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                           Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                           4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                   Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                   Pedestrians
   Start              Huston Rd                    Huston Rd                     Hwy 126                       Hwy 126                       Interval                     Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L     T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes    L      T      R               Bikes    Total          North       South East    West
 3:00 PM     2        2      13       0      4     2       4       0      2     78     1        0      17     94      2                0       221            3            0      0     0
 3:15 PM     4        1      11       0      4     3       5       0      4     93     2        0      19    105      7                0       258            0            1      0     0
 3:30 PM     1        2      11       0      4     2       5       0      4     89     7        0      24    131      3                0       283            2            0      0     0
 3:45 PM     2        3       9       0      0     3      11       0      1     74     6        0      27    136      7                0       279            0            0      0     0
 4:00 PM     4        1      12       0      2     0       0       0      5     96     4        0      18    130      6                0       278            1            0      1     1
 4:15 PM     2        2      14       0      2     0       2       0      4     74     1        0      28    155      5                0       289            2            0      0     1
 4:30 PM     0        1      11       0      3     2       7       0      4     85     6        0      24    125      6                0       274            0            0      0     0
 4:45 PM     4        1      14       0      3     1       4       0      4     79     8        0      29    156     10                0       313            0            0      0     0
 5:00 PM     1        0       8       0      3     3       7       0      6     97     4        0      33    126      0                0       288            1            2      0     0
 5:15 PM     4        1      12       0      0     2       1       0      1     72     2        0      31    142      5                0       273            0            0      0     0
 5:30 PM     6        2      10       0      1     0       4       0      2     64     6        0      36    163      2                0       296            0            1      2     0
 5:45 PM     5        2      12       0      2     1       4       0      0     59     1        0      33    159     3                 0       281            0            1      0     1
   Total
             35       18    137       0      28    19     54       0      37    960    48       0      319   1,622       56           0          3,333         9              5    3        3
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
                     Northbound                   Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                   Pedestrians
   By
                      Huston Rd                    Huston Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                            Total                    Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total             Bikes                   North       South East    West
 Volume      63      155    218       0      29    34      63      0     345    618    963      0      733   363 1,096                 0         1,170        1            3      2     0
  %HV                   3.2%                         10.3%                         4.3%                         1.8%                             2.8%
  PHF                   0.83                          0.56                         0.81                         0.91                             0.93

                     Northbound                   Southbound                     Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                      Huston Rd                    Huston Rd                      Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total
Movement
              L        T     R      Total      L    T     R      Total     L      T     R     Total     L      T     R           Total
 Volume      15        4     44     63         7    6     16     29       13     312    20    345      129    587    17          733             1,170
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 4.5%      3.2%    14.3% 0.0% 12.5%     10.3%   0.0%   3.8% 15.0%    4.3%    1.6%   1.4% 17.6%          1.8%            2.8%
  PHF       0.63     0.50   0.79    0.83     0.58 0.50   0.57    0.56    0.54   0.80   0.63   0.81    0.90   0.90   0.43         0.91            0.93



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                   Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                   Pedestrians
   Start              Huston Rd                    Huston Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                        Interval                     Crosswalk
   Time       L       T      R      Bikes    L     T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes     L     T     R                Bikes    Total          North       South East    West
 3:00 PM      9       8      44       0      12    10     25       0      11    334    16       0       87   466    19                 0      1,041           5            1      0     0
 3:15 PM     11       7      43       0      10    8      21       0      14    352    19       0       88   502    23                 0      1,098           3            1      1     1
 3:30 PM      9       8      46       0       8     5     18       0      14    333    18       0       97   552    21                 0      1,129           5            0      1     2
 3:45 PM      8       7      46       0       7     5     20       0      14    329    17       0       97   546    24                 0      1,120           3            0      1     2
 4:00 PM     10       5      51       0      10    3      13       0      17    334    19       0       99   566    27                 0      1,154           3            0      1     2
 4:15 PM      7       4      47       0      11    6      20       0      18    335    19       0      114   562    21                 0      1,164           3            2      0     1
 4:30 PM      9       3      45       0       9     8     19       0      15    333    20       0      117   549    21                 0      1,148           1            2      0     0
 4:45 PM     15       4      44       0       7    6      16       0      13    312    20       0      129   587    17                 0      1,170           1            3      2     0
 5:00 PM     16       5      42       0      6     6      16       0      9     292    13       0      133   590    10                 0      1,138           1            4      2     1
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                          4            2
                                                                                                                                             2   0     2
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     2                                                      0
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 2                                                                                      0 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   2                                                                                    2 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 1 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.50




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              4:00 PM to 5:00 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 1                    Driveway 1                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            2               0      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            1               0      2      0
 5:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            1               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            2               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      4      0       3       0      2      0      0       0         0     0           2           0            11           6             0      2           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:00 PM to 5:00 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 1                    Driveway 1                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       4      2      6       0       2     2      4       0         0     2      2                 0            6          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.50                         0.50                           0.00                              0.50

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 1                    Driveway 1                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         2      0      2     4         2      0      0    2         0        0      0          0                  6
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.50   0.00   0.50    0.50    0.50   0.00   0.00   0.50    0.00     0.00   0.00         0.00             0.50



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 1                    Driveway 1                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            2               0      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      2       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      2       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      2       0      2       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          6            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      2       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            1               0      2      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          4            2               0      2      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          4            4               0      2      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            4               0      2      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.38
                                                                                                                                          3            2
                                                                                                                                             2   0     1
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     0                                                      2
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 2                                                                                      2 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   0                                                                                    1 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 2 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.00




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              3:15 PM to 4:15 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 2                    Driveway 2                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 5:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      1      0       4       0      2      0      0       0         0     0           3           0            10           0             0      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
3:15 PM to 4:15 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 2                    Driveway 2                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       3      2      5       0       0     2      2       0         2     1      3                 0            5          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.38                         0.00                           0.25                              0.31

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 2                    Driveway 2                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         1      0      2     3         0      0      0    0         0        0      2          2                  5
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.50    0.38    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.25         0.25             0.31



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 2                    Driveway 2                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.33
                                                                                                                                          4            2
                                                                                                                                             3   0     1
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     0                                                      2
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 3                                                                                      2 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   0                                                                                    1 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 3 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.00




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              4:15 PM to 5:15 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 3                    Driveway 3                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      3       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 5:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      1      0       3       0      2      0      0       0         0     0           3           0             9           0             0      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:15 PM to 5:15 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 3                    Driveway 3                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       4      2      6       0       0     3      3       0         2     1      3                 0            6          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.33                         0.00                           0.50                              0.38

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 3                    Driveway 3                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         1      0      3     4         0      0      0    0         0        0      2          2                  6
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.25    0.33    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.50         0.50             0.38



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 3                    Driveway 3                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      3       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      3       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          6            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      3       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          6            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      3       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          6            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                          1            0
                                                                                                                                             0   0     1
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     0                                                      0
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 0                                                                                      0 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   0                                                                                    1 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 4 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.00




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              3:15 PM to 4:15 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 4                    Driveway 4                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 5:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      1      0       1       0      0      0      0       0         0     0           0           0             2           0             0      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
3:15 PM to 4:15 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 4                    Driveway 4                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       1      0      1       0       0     0      0       0         0     1      1                 0            1          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.25                         0.00                           0.00                              0.25

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 4                    Driveway 4                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         1      0      0     1         0      0      0    0         0        0      0          0                  1
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.00    0.25    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00         0.00             0.25



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 4                    Driveway 4                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                          4            0
                                                                                                                                             4   0     0
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     0                                                      0
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 4                                                                                      0 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   0                                                                                    0 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 5 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.00




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              4:15 PM to 5:15 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 5                    Driveway 5                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               1      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 5:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      0      0       7       0      0      0      0       0         0     0           0           0             7           0             1      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:15 PM to 5:15 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 5                    Driveway 5                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       4      0      4       0       0     4      4       0         0     0      0                 0            4          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.50                         0.00                           0.00                              0.50

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 5                    Driveway 5                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         0      0      4     4         0      0      0    0         0        0      0          0                  4
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.50    0.50    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00         0.00             0.50



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 5                    Driveway 5                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               1      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      3       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      4       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      3       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      3       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                          2            3
                                                                                                                                             1   0     1
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     1                                                      2
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 1                                                                                      2 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   1                                                                                    1 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 6 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.25




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              4:00 PM to 5:00 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 6                    Driveway 6                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               1      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 5:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      1      0       4       0      1      0      0       0         0     0           4           0            10           0             1      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:00 PM to 5:00 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 6                    Driveway 6                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       2      3      5       0       1     1      2       0         2     1      3                 0            5          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.50                         0.25                           0.50                              0.42

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 6                    Driveway 6                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         1      0      1     2         1      0      0    1         0        0      2          2                  5
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.25    0.50    0.25   0.00   0.00   0.25    0.00     0.00   0.50         0.50             0.42



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 6                    Driveway 6                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               1      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      2       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                          4            5
                                                                                                                                             1   0     3
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.75
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     2                                                      3
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 1                                                                                      3 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   2                                                                                    3 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 7 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.25




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 7                    Driveway 7                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               1      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      3       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 5:15 PM     0         0      0       0      2       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      7      0       2       0      2      0      0       0         0     0           7           0            18           0             1      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 7                    Driveway 7                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       4      5      9       0       2     1      3       0         3     3      6                 0            9          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.50                         0.25                           0.75                              0.75

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 7                    Driveway 7                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         3      0      1     4         2      0      0    2         0        0      3          3                  9
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.38   0.00   0.25    0.50    0.25   0.00   0.00   0.25    0.00     0.00   0.75         0.75             0.75



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 7                    Driveway 7                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      4       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          7            0               1      0      0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      3       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      3       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          6            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     4                  0          7            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      3       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0          8            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      3       0      1       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0          9            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      3       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          6            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                          6            6
                                                                                                                                             6   0     0
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.38
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     3                                                      3
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 6                                                                                      3 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   3                                                                                    0 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 8 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.38




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              3:15 PM to 4:15 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 8                    Driveway 8                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      1
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      3       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      2       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      3       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 5:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      1      0      10       0      6      0      0       0         0     0           6           0            23           0             0      0           1
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
3:15 PM to 4:15 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 8                    Driveway 8                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       6      6      12      0       3     6      9       0         3     0      3                 0           12          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.50                         0.38                           0.38                              0.75

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 8                    Driveway 8                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         0      0      6     6         3      0      0    3         0        0      3          3                 12
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.50    0.50    0.38   0.00   0.00   0.38    0.00     0.00   0.38         0.38             0.75



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 8                    Driveway 8                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      4       0      4      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          9            0               0      0      1
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      6       0      3      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0         12            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      6       0      2      0     0        0         0     0     4                  0         12            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      3       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     4                  0          9            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      5       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0         10            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      3       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          7            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      3       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      3       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          4            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                          1            2
                                                                                                                                             0   0     1
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     0                                                      2
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 0                                                                                      2 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   0                                                                                    1 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 9 & Hwy 126                                                                                        PHF 0.00




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              4:00 PM to 5:00 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 9                    Driveway 9                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      1
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      1      0       2       0      0      0      0       0         0     0           2           0             5           0             0      0           1
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:00 PM to 5:00 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                      Driveway 9                    Driveway 9                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0        0      0       0       1      2      3       0       0     0      0       0         2     1      3                 0            3          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.25                         0.00                           0.50                              0.38

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                      Driveway 9                    Driveway 9                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         1      0      0     1         0      0      0    0         0        0      2          2                  3
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.00    0.25    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.50         0.50             0.38



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start              Driveway 9                    Driveway 9                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      1
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          1            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.75
                                                                                                                                          3           16
                                                                                                                                             1   0     2
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.67
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     8                                                      8
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 1                                                                                      8 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   8                                                                                    2 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 10 & Hwy 126                                                                                       PHF 0.50




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              3:15 PM to 4:15 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 10                   Driveway 10                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      1        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               1      0      0
 3:15 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      4      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          7            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      1        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      2      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      2      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      2        0      2      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      2        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          3            2               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      2        0      3      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 5:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      2        0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      2        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      2        0      2      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          5            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      3      0      14       0      22     0      0       0         0     0          11           0            50           2             1      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
3:15 PM to 4:15 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                     Driveway 10                   Driveway 10                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0       0       0       0       3     16      19      0       8     1      9       0         8     2      10                0           19          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.75                         0.50                           0.67                              0.68

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                     Driveway 10                   Driveway 10                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T     R      Total     L      T     R      Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         2      0      1     3         8      0      0    8         0        0      8          8                 19
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.50   0.00   0.25    0.75    0.50   0.00   0.00   0.50    0.00     0.00   0.67         0.67             0.68



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 10                   Driveway 10                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0        0      0        0      2      0      2        0      7      0     0        0         0     0     6                  0         17            0               1      0      0
 3:15 PM     0        0      0        0      2      0      1        0      8      0     0        0         0     0     8                  0         19            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      1        0      6      0     0        0         0     0     7                  0         15            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      3        0      7      0     0        0         0     0     7                  0         17            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      4        0      7      0     0        0         0     0     4                  0         15            2               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      6        0      8      0     0        0         0     0     2                  0         16            2               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      8        0      8      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0         17            2               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      8        0      7      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0         16            2               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      8        0      8      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0         18            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.63
                                                                                                                                          20          13
                                                                                                                                          14     0     6
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.54
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     0                                                      13
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 14                                                                                 13 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   0                                                                                    6 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 11 & Hwy 126                                                                                       PHF 0.00




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              3:30 PM to 4:30 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 11                   Driveway 11                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      3        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0          6            0               1      0      0
 3:15 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      2        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0        0      0        0      3      0      5        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0         11            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      3        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0        0      0        0      2      0      3        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0          8            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      3        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     6                  0         10            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      3        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      3        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     3                  0          6            2               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0        0      0        0      3      0      2        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          5            0               0      0      0
 5:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      1        0      2      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      1        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     5                  0          8            0               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      3        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      12     0      32       0      4      0      0       0         0     0          26           0            74           2             1      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
3:30 PM to 4:30 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                     Driveway 11                   Driveway 11                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0       0       0       0      20     13      33      0       0    14      14      0         13    6      19                0           33          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.63                         0.00                           0.54                              0.75

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                     Driveway 11                   Driveway 11                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T     R      Total     L      T     R      Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         6      0     14     20        0      0      0    0         0        0     13          13                33
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.50   0.00   0.70    0.63    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.54         0.54             0.75



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 11                   Driveway 11                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0        0      0        0      4      0      13       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     7                  0         25            0               1      0      0
 3:15 PM     0        0      0        0      6      0      13       0      1      0     0        0         0     0     7                  0         27            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0        0      0        0      6      0      14       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     13                 0         33            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0        0      0        0      3      0      12       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     11                 0         26            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0        0      0        0      3      0      12       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     13                 0         28            2               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0        0      0        0      4      0      11       0      0      0     0        0         0     0     10                 0         25            2               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0        0      0        0      3      0       9       0      2      0     0        0         0     0      5                 0         19            2               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0        0      0        0      4      0       7       0      3      0     0        0         0     0      9                 0         23            2               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0        0      0        0      5      0      7        0      3      0     0        0         0     0     6                  0         21            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 5.3%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.68
                                                                                                                                          19          20
                                                                                                                                          17     0     2
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.63
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                  10                                                        10
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 17                                                                                 10 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   10                                                                                   2 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 10.0%
Driveway 12 & Hwy 126                                                                                       PHF 0.50




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              3:00 PM to 4:00 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 12                   Driveway 12                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes     L     T     R      Bikes        L    T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      3        0       5     0     0        0          0    0     2                  0         10            0               0      0      0
 3:15 PM     0        0      0        0      2      0      5        0       2     0     0        0          0    0     1                  0         10            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      3        0       0     0     0        0          0    0     4                  0          7            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      6        0       3     0     0        0          0    0     3                  0         12            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      3        0       1     0     0        0          0    0     1                  0          6            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      2        0       2     0     0        0          0    0     3                  0          7            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      2        0       3     0     0        0          0    0     1                  0          6            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      4        0       1     0     0        0          0    0     1                  0          6            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      3        0       3     0     0        0          0    0     4                  0         11            0               0      0      0
 5:15 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      4        0       7     0     0        0          0    0     2                  0         14            0               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      2        0       1     0     0        0          0    0     0                  0          4            0               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0        0      0        0      2      0      3        0       2     0     0        0          0    0     1                  0          8            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      8      0      40       0      30     0      0       0          0    0          23           0           101           0             0      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 4:00 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                     Driveway 12                   Driveway 12                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes    In      Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0       0       0       0      19     20      39      0      10    17      27      0      10       2      12                0           39          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          5.3%                        10.0%                           0.0%                              5.1%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.68                         0.50                           0.63                              0.81

                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound
   By
                     Driveway 12                   Driveway 12                    Hwy 126                         Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T     R      Total     L      T     R      Total      L    T     R      Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         2      0     17     19        10    0      0     10        0        0     10          10                39
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 5.9%      5.3%    10.0% 0.0% 0.0%      10.0%   0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             5.1%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.71    0.68     0.50 0.00   0.00    0.50    0.00     0.00   0.63         0.63             0.81



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 12                   Driveway 12                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes        L    T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0        0      0        0      2      0      17       0      10     0     0        0          0    0     10                 0         39            0               0      0      0
 3:15 PM     0        0      0        0      3      0      17       0       6     0     0        0          0    0     9                  0         35            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      14       0       6     0     0        0          0    0     11                 0         32            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      13       0       9     0     0        0          0    0     8                  0         31            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      11       0       7     0     0        0          0    0     6                  0         25            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      11       0       9     0     0        0          0    0     9                  0         30            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0        0      0        0      2      0      13       0      14     0     0        0          0    0      8                 0         37            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0        0      0        0      3      0      13       0      12     0     0        0          0    0      7                 0         35            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0        0      0        0      5      0      12       0      13     0     0        0          0    0     7                  0         37            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                          In          Out




                                                                                                                          HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                         PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                          1            2
                                                                                                                                             0   0     1
                                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                     1                                                      1
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 0                                                                                      1 In
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0




                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   1                                                                                    1 Out
                                                                                                                     0                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
Driveway 13 & Hwy 126                                                                                       PHF 0.25




                                                                                                                                                                  HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                 PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                             0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                   Out           In
                                                                                                                                           0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                              5:00 PM to 6:00 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 13                   Driveway 13                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 5:30 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 5:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          1            0               0      0      0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      1      0       0       0      1      0      0       0         0     0           1           0             3           0             0      0           0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
5:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   By
                     Driveway 13                   Driveway 13                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                             Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes       In   Out   Total             Bikes                    North          South East     West
 Volume       0       0       0       0       1      2      3       0       1     0      1       0         1     1      2                 0            3          0               0      0      0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         0.0%                           0.0%                              0.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.25                         0.25                           0.25                              0.38

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                     Westbound
   By
                     Driveway 13                   Driveway 13                     Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                            Total
Movement
              L        T     R      Total     L      T     R      Total     L      T     R     Total     L        T     R           Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         1      0      0     1         1      0      0    1         0        0      1          1                  3
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0% 0.0%           0.0%             0.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.00    0.25    0.25   0.00   0.00   0.25    0.00     0.00   0.25         0.25             0.38



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                      Westbound                                                       Pedestrians
   Start             Driveway 13                   Driveway 13                    Hwy 126                        Hwy 126                         Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes       L     T     R                Bikes     Total          North          South East     West
 3:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 3:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          0            0               0      0      0
 4:45 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     0                  0          2            0               0      0      0
 5:00 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      1      0     0        0         0     0     1                  0          3            0               0      0      0
                                                                                                                                      In         Out




                                                                                                                      HV 4.1%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                     PHF 0.61
                                                                                                                                      49         111
                                                                                                                                      12          37
                                                                                                                                                                        HV 1.6%
                                                                                                                                                                       PHF 0.93
                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                               18                                                      93
                   Clay Carney                                                                  Out 710                                                                          791 In
                                                                                                              349                                                      698




                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                        1
                 (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                 In   367                                                                        386 Out


                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                         HV 6.8%
Ellmaker Rd & Hwy 126                                                                                   PHF 0.92




                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                               Out          In
                                                                                                                                       0           0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                          Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                          4:00 PM to 5:00 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval           Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                  Pedestrians
   Start            Ellmaker Rd                   Ellmaker Rd                     Hwy 126                     Hwy 126                       Interval                     Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes     L             R     Bikes    L      T            Bikes           T     R               Bikes    Total          North       South East    West
 3:00 PM                             0      13             5       0      6     87              0            105    11                0       227            0            0      0     0
 3:15 PM                             0      13             2       0      3     101             0            144    25                0       288            0            0      0     0
 3:30 PM                             0       9             1       0      3     100             0            163    19                0       295            0            0      0     0
 3:45 PM                             0       7             6       0      2     81              0            147    18                0       261            1            0      0     1
 4:00 PM                             0      12             8       0      7     93              0            153    25                0       298            0            0      0     0
 4:15 PM                             0      10             4       0      4     81              0            189    24                0       312            0            0      0     0
 4:30 PM                             0       9             0       0      3     89              0            171    22                0       294            0            0      0     0
 4:45 PM                             0       6             0       0      4     86              0            185    22                0       303            0            0      1     0
 5:00 PM                             0      11             0       0      5     94              0            142    27                0       279            0            0      0     0
 5:15 PM                             0       6             0       0      4     73              0            189    32                0       304            0            0      0     0
 5:30 PM                             0       8             8       0      3     70              0            196    30                0       315            0            0      0     0
 5:45 PM                             0       6             6       0      5      60             0            175    26                0       278            0            0      0     0
   Total
                                     0     110            40       0      49    1,015           0            1,959     281           0          3,454         1              0    1        1
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:00 PM to 5:00 PM
                    Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                  Pedestrians
   By
                    Ellmaker Rd                   Ellmaker Rd                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total                    Crosswalk
Approach
            In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total            Bikes                   North       South East    West
 Volume      0       0       0       0      49    111     160      0     367    710 1,077       0      791   386 1,177                0         1,207        0            0      1     0
  %HV                   0.0%                          4.1%                         6.8%                         1.6%                            3.3%
  PHF                   0.00                          0.61                         0.92                         0.93                            0.97

                    Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                    Ellmaker Rd                   Ellmaker Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                          Total
Movement
                                   Total     L             R     Total     L      T           Total            T     R          Total
 Volume                            0        37            12     49       18     349          367             698    93         791             1,207
  %HV       NA       NA     NA     0.0%    5.4%    NA    0.0%    4.1%    0.0%   7.2%    NA    6.8%     NA    1.7% 1.1%          1.6%            3.3%
  PHF                              0.00    0.77          0.38    0.61    0.64   0.94          0.92           0.92   0.93        0.93            0.97



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval           Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                  Pedestrians
   Start            Ellmaker Rd                   Ellmaker Rd                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                       Interval                     Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes     L             R     Bikes    L      T            Bikes           T     R               Bikes    Total          North       South East    West
 3:00 PM                             0      42            14       0      14    369             0            559    73                0      1,071           1            0      0     1
 3:15 PM                             0      41            17       0      15    375             0            607    87                0      1,142           1            0      0     1
 3:30 PM                             0      38            19       0      16    355             0            652    86                0      1,166           1            0      0     1
 3:45 PM                             0      38            18       0      16    344             0            660    89                0      1,165           1            0      0     1
 4:00 PM                             0      37            12       0      18    349             0            698    93                0      1,207           0            0      1     0
 4:15 PM                             0      36             4       0      16    350             0            687    95                0      1,188           0            0      1     0
 4:30 PM                             0      32             0       0      16    342             0            687   103                0      1,180           0            0      1     0
 4:45 PM                             0      31             8       0      16    323             0            712   111                0      1,201           0            0      1     0
 5:00 PM                             0      31            14       0      17    297             0            702   115                0      1,176           0            0      0     0
                                                                                                                                     In          Out




                                                                                                                     HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                    PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                     0            2
                                                                                                                                        0         0
                                                                                                                                                                        HV 1.8%
                                                                                                                                                                       PHF 0.91
                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                               1                                                       1
                   Clay Carney                                                                 Out 768                                                                            769 In
                                                                                                             388                                                       768




                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                        0
                 (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                In   389                                                                          388 Out


                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                        HV 7.7%
Shady Rest Dr & Hwy 126                                                                                PHF 0.90




                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                              Out           In
                                                                                                                                      0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                         Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                         4:00 PM to 5:00 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval           Northbound                   Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start           Shady Rest Dr                 Shady Rest Dr                   Hwy 126                     Hwy 126                        Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes    L             R    Bikes     L      T            Bikes           T     R               Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 3:00 PM                             0      0             2      0       0     100             0            112    0                 0        214            0               0      0     0
 3:15 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     111             0            164    0                 0        275            0               0      0     0
 3:30 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     108             0            190    1                 0        299            0               0      0     0
 3:45 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     90              0            161    0                 0        251            0               0      0     0
 4:00 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     108             0            180    0                 0        288            0               0      0     0
 4:15 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     91              0            210    1                 0        302            0               0      0     0
 4:30 PM                             0      0             0      0       1     97              0            187    0                 0        285            0               0      0     0
 4:45 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     92              0            191    0                 0        283            0               0      0     0
 5:00 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     108             0            165    0                 0        273            0               0      0     0
 5:15 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     78              0            229    0                 0        307            0               0      0     0
 5:30 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     73              0            221    0                 0        294            0               0      0     0
 5:45 PM                             0      0             0      0       0      72             0            204    1                 0        277            0               0      0     0
   Total
                                     0      0             2       0      1     1,128           0            2,214       3           0           3,348         0              0     0        0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:00 PM to 5:00 PM
                    Northbound                   Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   By
                   Shady Rest Dr                 Shady Rest Dr                  Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                            Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
            In      Out   Total Bikes       In    Out   Total Bikes      In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total            Bikes                    North          South East    West
 Volume      0       0      0     0          0     2      2     0       389    768 1,157       0      769   388 1,157                0          1,158        0               0      0     0
  %HV                  0.0%                          0.0%                         7.7%                         1.8%                             3.8%
  PHF                  0.00                          0.00                         0.90                         0.91                             0.96

                    Northbound                  Southbound                      Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                   Shady Rest Dr                Shady Rest Dr                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total
Movement
                                   Total     L           R      Total     L      T           Total            T     R          Total
 Volume                            0         0           0      0         1     388          389             768     1         769              1,158
  %HV       NA       NA     NA     0.0%    0.0%  NA    0.0%     0.0%    0.0%   7.7%    NA    7.7%     NA    1.8% 0.0%          1.8%             3.8%
  PHF                              0.00    0.00        0.00     0.00    0.25   0.90          0.90           0.91   0.25        0.91             0.96



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval           Northbound                   Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start           Shady Rest Dr                 Shady Rest Dr                  Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                        Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes    L             R    Bikes     L      T            Bikes           T     R               Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 3:00 PM                             0      0             2      0       0     409             0            627    1                 0       1,039           0               0      0     0
 3:15 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     417             0            695    1                 0       1,113           0               0      0     0
 3:30 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     397             0            741    2                 0       1,140           0               0      0     0
 3:45 PM                             0      0             0      0       1     386             0            738    1                 0       1,126           0               0      0     0
 4:00 PM                             0      0             0      0       1     388             0            768    1                 0       1,158           0               0      0     0
 4:15 PM                             0      0             0      0       1     388             0            753    1                 0       1,143           0               0      0     0
 4:30 PM                             0      0             0      0       1     375             0            772    0                 0       1,148           0               0      0     0
 4:45 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     351             0            806    0                 0       1,157           0               0      0     0
 5:00 PM                             0      0             0      0       0     331             0            819    1                 0       1,151           0               0      0     0
                                                                                                                                       In          Out




                                                                                                                       HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                      PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                       0            3
                                                                                                                                          0   0     0
                                                                                                                                                                          HV 1.9%
                                                                                                                                                                         PHF 0.89
                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                 0                                                       3
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 804                                                                            808 In
                                                                                                               360                                                       804




                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                          0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   360                                                                          361 Out
                                                                                                                 0                                                       1

                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                          HV 4.4%
Lake Side Dr & Hwy 126                                                                                   PHF 0.81




                                                                                                                                                               HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                              PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                          0   0     1
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                Out           In
                                                                                                                                        1            1
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                           Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                           4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start             Lake Side Dr                  Lake Side Dr                   Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                        Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes     L     T     R               Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 3:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0     97     0        0       0    112    1                 0        210            0               0      0     0
 3:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0     116    0        0       0    165    0                 0        281            0               0      0     0
 3:30 PM     0         2      0       0      0       0      0       0      0     102    0        0       0    183    0                 0        287            0               0      0     0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0     93     0        0       0    167    0                 0        260            0               0      0     0
 4:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0     111    0        0       0    177    1                 0        290            0               0      0     0
 4:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0     87     0        0       0    203    1                 0        291            0               0      0     0
 4:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0     91     0        0       0    195    0                 0        286            0               0      0     0
 4:45 PM     0         0      1       0      0       0      0       0      0     98     0        0       1    198    1                 0        299            0               0      0     0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0     111    0        0       0    162    0                 0        273            0               0      0     0
 5:15 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0     76     0        0       0    220    0                 0        296            0               0      0     0
 5:30 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0     75     0        0       0    224    2                 0        301            0               0      0     0
 5:45 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0     73     0        0       0    206    0                 0        280            0               0      0     0
   Total
             0        2       1       0      1      0       1       0      0     1,130   0       0       1    2,212       6           0           3,354         0              0     0        0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   By
                     Lake Side Dr                  Lake Side Dr                   Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                            Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In       Out   Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total            Bikes                    North          South East    West
 Volume       1        1      2       0       0      3      3       0     360    804 1,164       0      808   361 1,169                0          1,169        0               0      0     0
  %HV                    0.0%                          0.0%                         4.4%                         1.9%                             2.7%
  PHF                    0.25                          0.00                         0.81                         0.89                             0.97

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                     Lake Side Dr                  Lake Side Dr                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L      T     R          Total
 Volume       0        0       1    1         0      0       0    0         0     360     0    360       1     804     3         808              1,169
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   4.4% 0.0%     4.4%    0.0%   1.9% 0.0%          1.9%             2.7%
  PHF       0.00     0.00    0.25   0.25    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.81   0.00   0.81    0.25   0.90   0.38        0.89             0.97



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start             Lake Side Dr                  Lake Side Dr                   Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                        Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L         T      R     Bikes    L       T      R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes     L     T     R               Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 3:00 PM     0         2      0       0      0       0      0       0      0     408    0        0       0    627    1                 0       1,038           0               0      0     0
 3:15 PM     0         2      0       0      0       0      1       0      0     422    0        0       0    692    1                 0       1,118           0               0      0     0
 3:30 PM     0         2      0       0      0       0      1       0      0     393    0        0       0    730    2                 0       1,128           0               0      0     0
 3:45 PM     0         0      0       0      0       0      1       0      0     382    0        0       0    742    2                 0       1,127           0               0      0     0
 4:00 PM     0         0      1       0      0       0      1       0      0     387    0        0       1    773    3                 0       1,166           0               0      0     0
 4:15 PM     0         0      1       0      0       0      0       0      0     387    0        0       1    758    2                 0       1,149           0               0      0     0
 4:30 PM     0         0      1       0      0       0      0       0      0     376    0        0       1    775    1                 0       1,154           0               0      0     0
 4:45 PM     0         0      1       0      0       0      0       0      0     360    0        0       1    804    3                 0       1,169           0               0      0     0
 5:00 PM     0         0      0       0      1       0      0       0      0     335    0        0       0    812    2                 0       1,150           0               0      0     0
                                                                                                                                       In          Out




                                                                                                                       HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                      PHF 0.50
                                                                                                                                       4            4
                                                                                                                                          2   0     2
                                                                                                                                                                          HV 1.9%
                                                                                                                                                                         PHF 0.88
                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                 2                                                       2
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 806                                                                            929 In
                                                                                                               346                                                       788




                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                          0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   357                                                                          411 Out
                                                                                                                 9                                                       139

                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                          HV 3.9%
Central Rd & Hwy 126                                                                                     PHF 0.83




                                                                                                                                                               HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                              PHF 0.76
                                                                                                                                       16     0     63
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                Out          In
                                                                                                                                       148          79
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                           Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                           4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start              Central Rd                    Central Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                       Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T       R     Bikes    L      T       R     Bikes    L      T      R     Bikes    L      T      R              Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 3:00 PM     3         0      22      0      0       0       2      0      0     97      4       0      22     97     3                0        250            0               0      0     0
 3:15 PM     0         0       5      0      1       0       1      0      0     107     3       0      27    166     0                0        310            0               0      0     0
 3:30 PM     1         0      18      0      0       0       0      0      0     100     7       0      13    183     0                0        322            0               0      0     0
 3:45 PM     2         0      26      0      1       0       1      0      1     83      4       0      37    164     1                0        320            0               0      0     0
 4:00 PM     1         0      10      0      0       0       1      0      0     103     2       0      21    173     1                0        312            0               0      0     0
 4:15 PM     1         0      12      0      0       0       2      0      1     95      2       0      24    212     1                0        350            0               0      0     0
 4:30 PM     4         0      18      0      2       0       0      0      0     94      1       0      27    180     1                0        327            0               0      0     0
 4:45 PM     3         0      20      0      0       0       0      0      0     93      3       0      28    189     0                0        336            0               0      0     0
 5:00 PM     7         0      13      0      0       0       1      0      1     104     2       0      28    162     1                0        319            0               0      0     0
 5:15 PM     4         0      22      0      1       0       0      0      0     78      3       0      40    224     0                0        372            0               0      0     0
 5:30 PM     2         0       8      0      1       0       1      0      1      71     1       0      43    213     1                0        342            0               0      0     0
 5:45 PM     1         0      12      0      0       0       1      0      0     66      6       0      32    212     1                0        331            0               0      0     0
   Total
             29       0     186       0      6      0      10       0      4     1,091   38      0      342   2,175      10           0           3,891         0              0     0        0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   By
                      Central Rd                    Central Rd                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                            Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total            Bikes                    North          South East    West
 Volume      79      148     227      0       4      4       8      0     357    806 1,163       0      929   411 1,340                0          1,369        0               0      0     0
  %HV                   0.0%                           0.0%                         3.9%                         1.9%                             2.3%
  PHF                   0.76                           0.50                         0.83                         0.88                             0.92

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                      Central Rd                    Central Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total
Movement
              L        T      R     Total     L      T      R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L      T     R          Total
 Volume      16        0      63    79        2      0       2    4         2     346     9    357      139    788     2         929              1,369
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   4.0% 0.0%     3.9%    0.7%   2.2% 0.0%          1.9%             2.3%
  PHF       0.57     0.00    0.72   0.76    0.50   0.00    0.50   0.50    0.50   0.83   0.75   0.83    0.81   0.88   0.50        0.88             0.92



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start              Central Rd                    Central Rd                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                        Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time       L       T       R     Bikes    L      T       R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes     L     T     R               Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 3:00 PM      6        0      71      0      2       0       4      0      1     387    18       0       99   610    4                 0       1,202           0               0      0     0
 3:15 PM      4        0      59      0      2       0       3      0      1     393    16       0       98   686    2                 0       1,264           0               0      0     0
 3:30 PM      5        0      66      0      1       0       4      0      2     381    15       0       95   732    3                 0       1,304           0               0      0     0
 3:45 PM      8        0      66      0      3       0       4      0      2     375     9       0      109   729    4                 0       1,309           0               0      0     0
 4:00 PM      9        0      60      0      2       0       3      0      1     385     8       0      100   754    3                 0       1,325           0               0      0     0
 4:15 PM     15        0      63      0      2       0       3      0      2     386     8       0      107   743    3                 0       1,332           0               0      0     0
 4:30 PM     18        0      73      0      3       0       1      0      1     369     9       0      123   755    2                 0       1,354           0               0      0     0
 4:45 PM     16        0      63      0      2       0       2      0      2     346     9       0      139   788    2                 0       1,369           0               0      0     0
 5:00 PM     14        0      55      0      2       0       3      0      2     319    12       0      143   811    3                 0       1,364           0               0      0     0
                                                                                                                                       In        Out




                                                                                                                      HV 1.9%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                     PHF 0.84
                                                                                                                                      107        47
                                                                                                                                     105          2
                                                                                                                                                                        HV 1.6%
                                                                                                                                                                       PHF 0.89
                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                               42                                                      5
                   Clay Carney                                                                  Out 934                                                                           834 In
                                                                                                              388                                                      829




                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                        0
                 (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                 In   430                                                                         390 Out


                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                         HV 2.6%
Fisher Rd & Hwy 126                                                                                     PHF 0.90




                                                                                                                                                             HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                            PHF 0.00
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                               Out          In
                                                                                                                                       0           0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                          Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                          4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval           Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   Start             Fisher Rd                     Fisher Rd                      Hwy 126                     Hwy 126                       Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes     L             R     Bikes    L      T            Bikes           T     R               Bikes    Total          North          South East    West
 3:00 PM                             0       1            14       0      14    104             0            115    2                 0       250            0               0      0     0
 3:15 PM                             0       0            30       0      9     107             0            170    0                 0       316            0               0      0     0
 3:30 PM                             0       2            33       0      9     106             0            168    1                 0       319            0               0      0     0
 3:45 PM                             0       0            29       0      7     123             0            174    2                 0       335            0               0      0     0
 4:00 PM                             0       0            22       0      8     100             0            174    4                 0       308            0               0      0     0
 4:15 PM                             0       0            30       0      8     103             0            207    1                 0       349            0               0      0     0
 4:30 PM                             0       2            17       0      10     91             0            199    0                 0       319            0               0      0     0
 4:45 PM                             0       1            24       0      16    104             0            187    1                 0       333            0               0      0     0
 5:00 PM                             0       0            24       0      11    109             0            182    2                 0       328            0               0      0     0
 5:15 PM                             0       0            32       0      8     94              0            227    0                 0       361            0               0      0     0
 5:30 PM                             0       1            25       0      7     81              0            233    2                 0       349            0               0      0     0
 5:45 PM                             0       1            28       0      11     70             0            219    2                 0       331            0               0      0     0
   Total
                                     0       8           308       0     118    1,192           0            2,255      17           0          3,898         0              0     0        0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
                    Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   By
                     Fisher Rd                     Fisher Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
            In      Out    Total   Bikes     In    Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total            Bikes                   North          South East    West
 Volume      0       0       0       0      107    47     154      0     430    934 1,364       0      834   390 1,224                0         1,371        0               0      0     0
  %HV                  0.0%                           1.9%                         2.6%                         1.6%                            1.9%
  PHF                   0.00                          0.84                         0.90                         0.89                            0.95

                    Northbound                   Southbound                      Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                     Fisher Rd                    Fisher Rd                       Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                          Total
Movement
                                   Total      L           R      Total     L      T           Total            T     R          Total
 Volume                            0          2          105     107      42     388          430             829     5         834             1,371
  %HV       NA       NA     NA     0.0%    50.0% NA     1.0%     1.9%    4.8%   2.3%    NA    2.6%     NA    1.6% 0.0%          1.6%            1.9%
  PHF                              0.00     0.50         0.82    0.84    0.66   0.89          0.90           0.89   0.63        0.89            0.95



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval           Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                     Pedestrians
   Start             Fisher Rd                     Fisher Rd                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                       Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time                            Bikes     L             R     Bikes    L      T            Bikes           T     R               Bikes    Total          North          South East    West
 3:00 PM                             0       3            106      0      39    440             0            627    5                 0      1,220           0               0      0     0
 3:15 PM                             0       2            114      0      33    436             0            686    7                 0      1,278           0               0      0     0
 3:30 PM                             0       2            114      0      32    432             0            723    8                 0      1,311           0               0      0     0
 3:45 PM                             0       2             98      0      33    417             0            754    7                 0      1,311           0               0      0     0
 4:00 PM                             0       3             93      0      42    398             0            767    6                 0      1,309           0               0      0     0
 4:15 PM                             0       3             95      0      45    407             0            775    4                 0      1,329           0               0      0     0
 4:30 PM                             0       3             97      0      45    398             0            795    3                 0      1,341           0               0      0     0
 4:45 PM                             0       2            105      0      42    388             0            829    5                 0      1,371           0               0      0     0
 5:00 PM                             0       2            109      0      37    354             0            861    6                 0      1,369           0               0      0     0
                                                                                                                                       In          Out




                                                                                                                       HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                      PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                       0            0
                                                                                                                                          0   0     0
                                                                                                                                                                          HV 1.9%
                                                                                                                                                                         PHF 0.86
                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                 0                                                       0
                    Clay Carney                                                                  Out 837                                                                            837 In
                                                                                                               385                                                       837




                                                                                                                                 1




                                                                                                                                                          0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                  In   385                                                                          385 Out
                                                                                                                 0                                                       0

                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                          HV 2.3%
Richmond St & Hwy 126                                                                                    PHF 0.92




                                                                                                                                                               HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                              PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                          0   0     0
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                Out           In
                                                                                                                                        0            0
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                           Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                           4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start             Richmond St                   Richmond St                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                        Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes     L     T     R               Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 3:00 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      0     103    0        0       0    115    0                 0        219            0               0      0     0
 3:15 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      1     100    0        0       0    167    0                 0        269            0               0      0     0
 3:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     97     0        0       0    172    1                 0        270            0               0      0     0
 3:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     126    0        0       0    173    2                 0        301            0               0      0     0
 4:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     110    0        0       0    186    1                 0        297            0               0      0     0
 4:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     104    0        0       0    198    0                 0        302            0               0      0     0
 4:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     94     0        0       0    192    0                 0        286            0               0      0     0
 4:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     103    0        0       0    196    0                 0        299            0               0      0     0
 5:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     105    0        0       0    176    0                 0        281            0               0      0     0
 5:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     93     0        0       0    221    0                 0        314            0               0      0     0
 5:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     84     0        0       0    244    0                 0        328            0               0      0     1
 5:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     73     0        0       0    217    1                 0        291            0               0      0     0
   Total
             0        0       0       0      2      0       0       0      1     1,192   0       0       0    2,257       5           0           3,457         0              0     0        1
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
                     Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   By
                     Richmond St                   Richmond St                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                            Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out    Total   Bikes    In     Out   Total   Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total            Bikes                    North          South East    West
 Volume       0       0       0       0       0      0      0       0     385    837 1,222       0      837   385 1,222                0          1,222        0               0      0     1
  %HV                   0.0%                           0.0%                         2.3%                         1.9%                             2.0%
  PHF                    0.00                          0.00                         0.92                         0.86                             0.93

                     Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                     Richmond St                   Richmond St                     Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total
Movement
              L        T     R      Total     L      T     R      Total     L      T     R     Total     L      T     R          Total
 Volume       0        0      0     0         0      0     0      0         0     385     0    385       0     837     0         837              1,222
  %HV       0.0%     0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   0.0% 0.0%      0.0%    0.0%   2.3% 0.0%     2.3%    0.0%   1.9% 0.0%          1.9%             2.0%
  PHF       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00     0.00    0.00   0.92   0.00   0.92    0.00   0.86   0.00        0.86             0.93



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval            Northbound                    Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start             Richmond St                   Richmond St                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                        Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L        T      R      Bikes    L      T      R      Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes     L     T     R               Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 3:00 PM     0        0      0        0      2      0      0        0      1     426    0        0       0    627    3                 0       1,059           0               0      0     0
 3:15 PM     0        0      0        0      1      0      0        0      1     433    0        0       0    698    4                 0       1,137           0               0      0     0
 3:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     437    0        0       0    729    4                 0       1,170           0               0      0     0
 3:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     434    0        0       0    749    3                 0       1,186           0               0      0     0
 4:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     411    0        0       0    772    1                 0       1,184           0               0      0     0
 4:15 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     406    0        0       0    762    0                 0       1,168           0               0      0     0
 4:30 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     395    0        0       0    785    0                 0       1,180           0               0      0     0
 4:45 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     385    0        0       0    837    0                 0       1,222           0               0      0     1
 5:00 PM     0        0      0        0      0      0      0        0      0     355    0        0       0    858    1                 0       1,214           0               0      0     1
                                                                                                                                    In          Out




                                                                                                                    HV 0.0%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                   PHF 0.00
                                                                                                                                    0            0


                                                                                                                                                                       HV 1.9%
                                                                                                                                                                      PHF 0.86
                                                                                                                                           0


                    Clay Carney                                                               Out 829                                                                            832 In
                                                                                                            392                                                       829




                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                       0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                               In   392                                                                          394 Out
                                                                                                              0                                                       3

                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                       HV 2.6%
Ken Neilsen Rd & Hwy 126                                                                              PHF 0.93




                                                                                                                                                            HV 0.0%
                                                                                                                                                           PHF 0.25
                                                                                                                                       0         2
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                             Out           In
                                                                                                                                     3            2
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                        Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                        4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval           Northbound                  Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start           Ken Neilsen Rd              Ken Neilsen Rd                   Hwy 126                     Hwy 126                        Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L               R    Bikes                         Bikes          T      R     Bikes     L     T                     Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 3:00 PM     1               6      0                             0           102     0       0       2    122                      0        233            0               0      0     1
 3:15 PM     0               1      0                             0           108     0       0       2    156                      0        267            0               0      0     0
 3:30 PM     0               1      0                             0            91     1       0       2    173                      0        268            0               0      0     0
 3:45 PM     0               1      0                             0           118     1       0       2    160                      0        282            0               0      0     0
 4:00 PM     0               0      0                             0           113     0       0       1    190                      0        304            0               0      0     2
 4:15 PM     0               1      0                             0            98     0       0       0    217                      0        316            0               0      0     0
 4:30 PM     0               0      0                             0            92     0       0       3    192                      0        287            0               0      0     0
 4:45 PM     0               0      0                             0           105     0       0       1    187                      0        293            0               0      0     0
 5:00 PM     0               0      0                             0           101     0       0       0    168                      0        269            0               0      0     0
 5:15 PM     0               0      0                             0            97     0       0       1    242                      0        340            0               0      0     0
 5:30 PM     0               2      0                             0            89     0       0       1    232                      0        324            0               0      0     0
 5:45 PM     0               1      0                             0           66      0       0       0    216                      0        283            0               0      0     0
   Total
             1               13    0                              0           1,180   2       0      15    2,255                   0           3,466         0              0     0        3
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
                    Northbound                  Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   By
                   Ken Neilsen Rd              Ken Neilsen Rd                  Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                            Total                       Crosswalk
Approach
             In     Out     Total Bikes   In     Out    Total Bikes      In   Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total            Bikes                    North          South East    West
 Volume       2      3       5      0      0      0      0      0       392   829 1,221       0      832   394 1,226                0          1,226        0               0      0     0
  %HV                  0.0%                         0.0%                         2.6%                         1.9%                             2.1%
  PHF                   0.25                        0.00                         0.93                         0.86                             0.90

                  Northbound                    Southbound                     Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                 Ken Neilsen Rd                Ken Neilsen Rd                   Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total
Movement
              L             R   Total                           Total           T     R     Total     L      T                Total
 Volume       0             2   2                               0              392    0     392       3     829               832              1,226
  %HV       0.0%   NA     0.0% 0.0%       NA     NA     NA      0.0%    NA    2.6% 0.0%     2.6%    0.0%   1.9%   NA          1.9%             2.1%
  PHF       0.00          0.25 0.25                             0.00          0.93   0.00   0.93    0.75   0.86               0.86              0.90



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval           Northbound                  Southbound                    Eastbound                    Westbound                                                      Pedestrians
   Start           Ken Neilsen Rd              Ken Neilsen Rd                  Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                        Interval                        Crosswalk
   Time      L               R    Bikes                         Bikes          T     R      Bikes     L     T                     Bikes     Total          North          South East    West
 3:00 PM     1               9      0                             0           419    2        0       8    611                      0       1,050           0               0      0     1
 3:15 PM     0               3      0                             0           430    2        0       7    679                      0       1,121           0               0      0     2
 3:30 PM     0               3      0                             0           420    2        0       5    740                      0       1,170           0               0      0     2
 3:45 PM     0               2      0                             0           421    1        0       6    759                      0       1,189           0               0      0     2
 4:00 PM     0               1      0                             0           408    0        0       5    786                      0       1,200           0               0      0     2
 4:15 PM     0               1      0                             0           396    0        0       4    764                      0       1,165           0               0      0     0
 4:30 PM     0               0      0                             0           395    0        0       5    789                      0       1,189           0               0      0     0
 4:45 PM     0               2      0                             0           392    0        0       3    829                      0       1,226           0               0      0     0
 5:00 PM     0               3      0                             0           353    0        0       2    858                      0       1,216           0               0      0     0
                                                                                                                                         In         Out




                                                                                                                        HV 0.7%
Total Vehicle Summary




                                                                                                                       PHF 0.91
                                                                                                                                        135         107
                                                                                                                                        35     50    50
                                                                                                                                                                           HV 1.7%
                                                                                                                                                                          PHF 0.90
                                                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                                 23                                                       62
                    Clay Carney                                                                   Out 855                                                                           991 In
                                                                                                                369                                                       816




                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                           0
                  (503) 833-2740
                                                                                                   In   397                                                                         469 Out
                                                                                                                  5                                                       113

                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                           HV 3.8%
Green Hill Rd & Hwy 126                                                                                   PHF 0.92




                                                                                                                                                                HV 1.3%
                                                                                                                                                               PHF 0.76
                                                                                                                                           4   22    50
Thursday, June 02, 2011                                                                                                                 Out          In
                                                                                                                                        168          76
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                            Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                            4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
15-Minute Interval Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval           Northbound                     Southbound                     Eastbound                    Westbound                                                   Pedestrians
   Start            Green Hill Rd                  Green Hill Rd                    Hwy 126                     Hwy 126                        Interval                     Crosswalk
   Time      L        T       R     Bikes    L       T       R     Bikes    L      T      R     Bikes    L      T     R               Bikes     Total          North       South East    West
 3:00 PM     3        5       6       0      15      5      12       0      8     109     2       0      20    112    14                0        311            0            0      0     0
 3:15 PM     3       10      17       0      12     11      12       0      6     88      3       0      17    153    16                0        348            0            0      0     0
 3:30 PM     1       14      18       0      11     10      12       0      5     95      1       0      30    174     8                0        379            0            0      0     0
 3:45 PM     2        8      11       0       7      5      16       0      8     111     1       0      30    151    13                0        363            0            0      0     0
 4:00 PM     1        4      15       0      11     12       9       0      8     107     0       0      21    176    22                0        386            0            0      0     0
 4:15 PM     1        8      11       0      19     14       7       0      3     103     1       0      23    191     9                0        390            0            0      0     0
 4:30 PM     1        8       8       0      10     12      15       0      7      80     0       0      19    189    17                0        366            0            0      0     0
 4:45 PM     1        4      11       0      13     17       6       0      4     103     1       0      25    181    15                0        381            0            0      0     0
 5:00 PM     0        5       9       0       9     13       5       0      7     100     1       0      27    183    16                0        375            0            0      0     0
 5:15 PM     1        7      17       0      17      9      11       0      6     87      1       0      34    224    16                0        430            0            0      0     0
 5:30 PM     2        6      13       0      11     11      13       0      6     79      2       0      27    228    15                0        413            0            0      0     0
 5:45 PM     0        8       8       0      12     11      11       0      4     60      1       0      28    199    16                0        358            0            0      0     0
   Total
             16       87    144       0     147    130     129       0      72    1,122   14      0      301   2,161     177           0           4,500         0              0    0        0
  Survey


Peak Hour Summary
4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
                    Northbound                     Southbound                     Eastbound                    Westbound                                                   Pedestrians
   By
                    Green Hill Rd                  Green Hill Rd                   Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                            Total                    Crosswalk
Approach
             In      Out   Total    Bikes    In     Out   Total    Bikes    In    Out   Total   Bikes     In   Out   Total            Bikes                    North       South East    West
 Volume      76      168    244       0     135     107    242       0     397    855 1,252       0      991   469 1,460                0          1,599        0            0      0     0
  %HV                   1.3%                           0.7%                          3.8%                         1.7%                             2.1%
  PHF                   0.76                           0.91                          0.92                         0.90                             0.93

                    Northbound                     Southbound                      Eastbound                   Westbound
   By
                    Green Hill Rd                  Green Hill Rd                    Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                           Total
Movement
              L       T       R     Total     L      T       R     Total     L      T     R     Total     L      T     R          Total
 Volume       4      22      50     76       50     50      35     135      23     369     5    397      113    816    62         991              1,599
  %HV       0.0%    0.0% 2.0%       1.3%    0.0%   2.0% 0.0%       0.7%    0.0%   3.8% 20.0%    3.8%    1.8%   1.6% 3.2%          1.7%             2.1%
  PHF       0.50    0.79   0.74     0.76    0.74   0.74   0.67     0.91    0.82   0.90   0.63   0.92    0.83   0.89   0.97        0.90             0.93



Rolling Hour Summary
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
 Interval           Northbound                     Southbound                     Eastbound                    Westbound                                                   Pedestrians
   Start            Green Hill Rd                  Green Hill Rd                   Hwy 126                      Hwy 126                        Interval                     Crosswalk
   Time      L        T       R     Bikes    L       T       R     Bikes    L      T     R      Bikes     L     T     R               Bikes     Total          North       South East    West
 3:00 PM     9       37      52       0      45     31      52       0      27    403    7        0       97   590    51                0       1,401           0            0      0     0
 3:15 PM     7       36      61       0      41     38      49       0      27    401    5        0       98   654    59                0       1,476           0            0      0     0
 3:30 PM     5       34      55       0      48     41      44       0      24    416    3        0      104   692    52                0       1,518           0            0      0     0
 3:45 PM     5       28      45       0      47     43      47       0      26    401    2        0       93   707    61                0       1,505           0            0      0     0
 4:00 PM     4       24      45       0      53     55      37       0      22    393    2        0       88   737    63                0       1,523           0            0      0     0
 4:15 PM     3       25      39       0      51     56      33       0      21    386    3        0       94   744    57                0       1,512           0            0      0     0
 4:30 PM     3       24      45       0      49     51      37       0      24    370    3        0      105   777    64                0       1,552           0            0      0     0
 4:45 PM     4       22      50       0      50     50      35       0      23    369    5        0      113   816    62                0       1,599           0            0      0     0
 5:00 PM     3       26      47       0      49     44      40       0      23    326    5        0      116   834    63                0       1,576           0            0      0     0
                       16-Hour Turn Movement Counts




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan          P09042019 
                                                                            All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                      15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683
                                                                                    503-833-2740

                                                                                                                                   File Name            : Huston&126 16HR
                                                                                                                                   Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 6/2/2011
                                                                                                                                   Page No              :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                     HUSTON RD                                  HWY 126                      HUSTON RD                               HWY 126
                     Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                            Eastbound
Start Time   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total

    05:00      0      1       2      0           3       1     8    0    0         9     2     0    4     0         6        0     21       0      1       21                 1         39            40
    05:15      1      0       0      0           1       1   15     0    0       16      2     0   10     0        12        0     34       0      0       34                 0         63            63
    05:30      2      0       0      0           2       1   19     1    0       21      1     1   12     0        14        0     36       0      0       36                 0         73            73
    05:45      2      0       1      0           3       0   18     1    0       19      0     1   14     0        15        0     50       0      0       50                 0         87            87
     Total     5      1       3      0           9       3   60     2    0       65      5     2   40     0        47        0    141       0      1      141                 1        262           263

    06:00      3      0      0       0          3        2    18     1    0      21     2     0    15    0       17          0     54      2       0       56                 0         97            97
    06:15      2      0      1       0          3        2    19     1    0      22     0     0    27    0       27          1     68      3       0       72                 0        124           124
    06:30      1      1      3       0          5        3    19     1    0      23     4     1    27    0       32          1     86      3       0       90                 0        150           150
    06:45      3      1      6       0         10        1    28     0    0      29     5     0    29    0       34          1     98      2       0      101                 0        174           174
     Total     9      2     10       0         21        8    84     3    0      95    11     1    98    0      110          3    306     10       0      319                 0        545           545

    07:00      2      0       0      0          2        7    18     1    0      26     0     0    38    0       38          1    112       2      0      115                 0        181           181
    07:15      7      1       0      0          8        7    37     0    0      44     5     4    44    0       53          1    129       2      0      132                 0        237           237
    07:30      5      1       1      0          7        2    59     2    0      63     8     3    57    0       68          1    164       4      0      169                 0        307           307
    07:45      6      2       4      0         12        6    46     3    0      55     8     2    30    0       40          0    119       0      0      119                 0        226           226
     Total    20      4       5      0         29       22   160     6    0     188    21     9   169    0      199          3    524       8      0      535                 0        951           951

    08:00      6      1       3      0         10        3    59     2    0      64     6     3    26    0         35        2    109       3      0      114                 0        223           223
    08:15      5      1       1      0          7        9    47     2    0      58     4     1    22    0         27        0    123       1      0      124                 0        216           216
    08:30      3      2       0      0          5        6    59     0    0      65     3     2    12    0         17        2     81       5      0       88                 0        175           175
    08:45      2      1       2      0          5       13    76     2    0      91     2     3    12    0         17        1     88       0      0       89                 0        202           202
     Total    16      5       6      0         27       31   241     6    0     278    15     9    72    0         96        5    401       9      0      415                 0        816           816

    09:00      3      0       2      0          5        7    51     1    0      59     2     1     5    0          8        0     77       3      2       80                 2        152           154
    09:15      1      0       0      0          1        5    76     2    0      83     2     2    25    0         29        2     97       4      1      103                 1        216           217
    09:30      5      1       1      0          7        8    67     2    0      77     0     1    12    0         13        3     68       0      0       71                 0        168           168
    09:45      0      0       4      0          4        3    71     0    0      74     2     0    15    0         17        0     85       2      0       87                 0        182           182
     Total     9      1       7      0         17       23   265     5    0     293     6     4    57    0         67        5    327       9      3      341                 3        718           721

    10:00      3      1       1      0          5        5    58     1    0      64     3     2    18    1         23        2     81       6      0       89                 1        181           182
    10:15      3      0       3      0          6        6    68     4    1      78     2     0    14    0         16        1     99       0      1      100                 2        200           202
    10:30      4      3       1      2          8        8    78     3    0      89     4     2    14    0         20        2     92       2      1       96                 3        213           216
    10:45      1      1       2      0          4        6    71     2    0      79     1     1    17    0         19        1     94       1      0       96                 0        198           198
     Total    11      5       7      2         23       25   275    10    1     310    10     5    63    1         78        6    366       9      2      381                 6        792           798

    11:00      2      1      3       1          6       10    76     1    0      87     3     0    20    0         23        2     93      1       0       96                 1        212           213
    11:15      1      0      3       2          4        9    60     1    0      70     2     1    16    0         19        1     80      3       0       84                 2        177           179
    11:30      1      0      1       0          2       13    65     4    0      82     5     0     9    0         14        0     92      4       1       96                 1        194           195
    11:45      2      2      3       0          7       13    81     5    0      99     5     1     6    0         12        0     86      4       0       90                 0        208           208
     Total     6      3     10       3         19       45   282    11    0     338    15     2    51    0         68        3    351     12       1      366                 4        791           795

    12:00      2      0     10       1         12       13    84     4    0     101     3     1    10    0         14        4    101      5       1      110                 2        237           239
    12:15      0      0      4       0          4        8    87     2    0      97     5     0    12    0         17        2     91      4       0       97                 0        215           215
    12:30      1      0      3       0          4       11    78     2    0      91     3     0    21    0         24        3     79      3       0       85                 0        204           204
    12:45      1      1      2       0          4        9   107     1    0     117     5     3    13    0         21        2     77      4       0       83                 0        225           225
     Total     4      1     19       1         24       41   356     9    0     406    16     4    56    0         76       11    348     16       1      375                 2        881           883

    13:00      1      1       2      1          4       11    85     2    0      98     4     2     9    0         15        3     78      3       0       84                 1        201           202
    13:15      3      1       0      0          4       19    93     5    0     117     2     2     8    0         12        1     81      1       0       83                 0        216           216
    13:30      2      1       4      0          7       23    87     3    0     113     5     0    22    1         27        2     85      6       1       93                 2        240           242
    13:45      3      0       3      0          6        7    94     3    0     104     2     1    10    0         13        3     83      2       0       88                 0        211           211
     Total     9      3       9      1         21       60   359    13    0     432    13     5    49    1         67        9    327     12       1      348                 3        868           871

    14:00      2      1      2       0          5       17    99     4    0     120     5     2    16    0         23        2     90      3       0       95                 0        243           243
    14:15      2      3      6       0         11        9    81     2    1      92     2     2    16    0         20        4     91      2       0       97                 1        220           221
    14:30      1      4      4       0          9       15   105     4    0     124     1     3     8    0         12        1     91      0       0       92                 0        237           237
    14:45      5      4      3       1         12       12   105     3    1     120     2     3    13    0         18        3    100      9       0      112                 2        262           264
     Total    10     12     15       1         37       53   390    13    2     456    10    10    53    0         73       10    372     14       0      396                 3        962           965
                                                                               All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                         15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683
                                                                                       503-833-2740

                                                                                                                                            File Name            : Huston&126 16HR
                                                                                                                                            Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                                            Start Date           : 6/2/2011
                                                                                                                                            Page No              :2
                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                      HUSTON RD                                  HWY 126                      HUSTON RD                                       HWY 126
                      Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                    Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total

     15:00      4      2      4       3         10       17   94     2    0    113        2     2   13     0                17        2     78      1       0       81                 3      221            224
     15:15      4      3      5       0         12       19 105      7    0    131        4     1   11     1                16        4     93      2       0       99                 1      258            259
     15:30      4      2      5       2         11       24 131      3    0    158        1     2   11     0                14        4     89      7       0      100                 2      283            285
     15:45      0      3     11       0         14       27 136      7    0    170        2     3    9     0                14        1     74      6       0       81                 0      279            279
      Total    12     10     25       5         47       87 466     19    0    572        9     8   44     1                61       11    334     16       0      361                 6     1041           1047

     16:00      2      0      0       1          2       18    130      6     1     154       4      1     12     0         17        5     96      4       1      105                 3      278            281
     16:15      2      0      2       2          4       28    155      5     0     188       2      2     14     0         18        4     74      1       1       79                 3      289            292
     16:30      3      2      7       0         12       24    125      6     0     155       0      1     11     0         12        4     85      6       0       95                 0      274            274
     16:45      3      1      4       0          8       29    156     10     0     195       4      1     14     0         19        4     79      8       0       91                 0      313            313
      Total    10      3     13       3         26       99    566     27     1     692      10      5     51     0         66       17    334     19       2      370                 6     1154           1160

     17:00      3      3      7       1         13       33    126      0     0     159       1      0      8     2          9        6     97      4       0      107                 3      288            291
     17:15      0      2      1       0          3       31    142      5     0     178       4      1     12     0         17        1     72      2       0       75                 0      273            273
     17:30      1      0      4       0          5       36    163      2     2     201       6      2     10     1         18        2     64      6       0       72                 3      296            299
     17:45      2      1      4       0          7       33    159      3     0     195       5      2     12     1         19        0     59      1       1       60                 2      281            283
      Total     6      6     16       1         28      133    590     10     2     733      16      5     42     4         63        9    292     13       1      314                 8     1138           1146

     18:00      1      1       3      1          5       33    133      3     0     169       2      0     13     0         15        4     71      3       0       78                 1        267           268
     18:15      3      1       1      0          5       34    104      6     0     144       1      3      5     0          9        2     64      7       1       73                 1        231           232
     18:30      2      2       1      0          5       21     80      6     0     107       1      1      5     1          7        0     41      3       0       44                 1        163           164
     18:45      1      0       1      0          2       20     63      0     0      83       2      0      9     1         11        1     30      5       1       36                 2        132           134
      Total     7      4       6      1         17      108    380     15     0     503       6      4     32     2         42        7    206     18       2      231                 5        793           798

     19:00      1      3       2      0          6       17     74      2     0      93       4      2      9     0         15        0     35      5       0       40                 0        154           154
     19:15      0      0       3      0          3       13     53      0     0      66       5      1      4     0         10        2     36      4       0       42                 0        121           121
     19:30      1      1       1      0          3       13     59      2     0      74       0      2      7     0          9        0     39      2       0       41                 0        127           127
     19:45      1      1       1      0          3       17     54      2     0      73       1      1      2     0          4        4     42      3       0       49                 0        129           129
      Total     3      5       7      0         15       60    240      6     0     306      10      6     22     0         38        6    152     14       0      172                 0        531           531

     20:00      3      0       2      0          5        6     44      1     0      51       2      1      5     0          8        0     31       3      2       34                 2         98           100
     20:15      1      0       0      0          1        5     44      2     0      51       2      2      5     0          9        2     47       4      1       53                 1        114           115
     20:30      5      1       1      0          7        8     25      2     0      35       0      1      6     0          7        3     31       0      0       34                 0         83            83
     20:45      0      0       4      0          4        3     48      0     0      51       2      0      5     0          7        0     42       2      0       44                 0        106           106
      Total     9      1       7      0         17       22    161      5     0     188       6      4     21     0         31        5    151       9      3      165                 3        401           404

Grand Total   146     66    165     18       377        820    4875   160     6    5855     179     83    920     9    1182         110    4932   188     17     5230               50       12644          12694
Apprch %      38.7   17.5   43.8                          14   83.3    2.7                  15.1     7    77.8                       2.1   94.3    3.6
 Total %       1.2   0.5     1.3               3         6.5   38.6    1.3          46.3     1.4   0.7     7.3           9.3         0.9    39     1.5            41.4             0.4         99.6
Unshifted     135     61    138              352        798    4629   144          5577     173     75    892          1149           98   4658   181            4954                0            0 12032
% Unshifted   92.5   92.4   83.6    100     89.1        97.3    95      90   100    95.2    96.6   90.4     97   100    96.5        89.1   94.4   96.3    100     94.4               0            0 94.8
  Bank 1       11      5     27               43         22    246      16           284      6      8      28            42         12    274       7             293               0            0   662
% Bank 1      7.5    7.6    16.4       0    10.9        2.7      5      10     0      4.8   3.4    9.6       3     0     3.5        10.9    5.6    3.7       0      5.6              0            0    5.2
                                                                           All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                     15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683
                                                                                   503-833-2740

                                                                                                                                  File Name             : Ellmaker&126 16HR
                                                                                                                                  Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                                  Start Date            : 6/2/2011
                                                                                                                                  Page No               :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                    ELLMAKER RD                                 HWY 126                     ELLMAKER RD                              HWY 126
                     Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                            Eastbound
Start Time   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds    App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total

    05:00      1      0       0      0          1        0     3    2    0         5     0     0    0     0          0       1     41       0      0        42                 0         48            48
    05:15      7      0       0      0          7        0   11     4    0       15      0     0    0     0          0       0     43       0      0        43                 0         65            65
    05:30     10      0       1      0         11        0   22     4    0       26      0     0    0     0          0       0     48       0      0        48                 0         85            85
    05:45     16      0       0      0         16        0   16     1    0       17      0     0    0     0          0       4     65       0      0        69                 0        102           102
     Total    34      0       1      0         35        0   52    11    0       63      0     0    0     0          0       5    197       0      0       202                 0        300           300

    06:00     12      0      2       0         14        0    22    1    0      23     0     0     0    0            0       0     68       0      0        68                 0        105           105
    06:15     23      0      3       0         26        0    21    2    0      23     0     0     0    0            0       1    100       0      0       101                 0        150           150
    06:30     21      0      2       0         23        0    25    2    0      27     0     0     0    0            0       2    115       0      0       117                 0        167           167
    06:45     21      0      4       0         25        0    28    1    0      29     0     0     0    0            0       1    124       0      0       125                 0        179           179
     Total    77      0     11       0         88        0    96    6    0     102     0     0     0    0            0       4    407       0      0       411                 0        601           601

    07:00     25      0      2       0       27          0    23    4    0      27     0     0     0    0            0       3    150       0      0       153                 0      207            207
    07:15     30      0      5       0       35          0    49    1    0      50     0     0     0    0            0       4    177       0      3       181                 3      266            269
    07:30     24      0      5       0       29          0    62    7    0      69     0     0     0    0            0       2    221       0      0       223                 0      321            321
    07:45     18      0      2       0       20          0    52    2    0      54     0     0     0    0            0       4    144       0      0       148                 0      222            222
     Total    97      0     14       0      111          0   186   14    0     200     0     0     0    0            0      13    692       0      3       705                 3     1016           1019

    08:00     19      0      2       0         21        0    55    2    0      57     0     0     0    0            0       5    137       0      0       142                 0        220           220
    08:15     17      0      3       0         20        0    61    7    0      68     0     0     0    0            0       2    138       0      0       140                 0        228           228
    08:30     19      0      3       0         22        0    64    4    0      68     0     0     0    0            0       2    101       0      0       103                 0        193           193
    08:45      9      0     12       0         21        0    72    7    0      79     0     0     0    0            0       4     89       0      0        93                 0        193           193
     Total    64      0     20       0         84        0   252   20    0     272     0     0     0    0            0      13    465       0      0       478                 0        834           834

    09:00     15      0      3       0         18        0    57    4    0      61     0     0     0    0            0       3     85       0      0        88                 0        167           167
    09:15     13      0      5       0         18        0    82    6    0      88     0     0     0    0            0       2    123       0      0       125                 0        231           231
    09:30     12      0      5       0         17        0    73    9    0      82     0     0     0    0            0       1     84       0      0        85                 0        184           184
    09:45     10      0      0       0         10        0    66    6    0      72     0     0     0    0            0       3     91       0      0        94                 0        176           176
     Total    50      0     13       0         63        0   278   25    0     303     0     0     0    0            0       9    383       0      0       392                 0        758           758

    10:00     11      0      1       0         12        0    68   10    0      78     0     0     0    0            0       1     97       0      1        98                 1        188           189
    10:15      8      0      3       0         11        0    66    7    0      73     0     0     0    0            0       0    119       0      0       119                 0        203           203
    10:30     19      0      1       0         20        0    72    4    0      76     0     0     0    0            0       2    106       0      0       108                 0        204           204
    10:45     11      0      6       0         17        0    72    9    0      81     0     0     0    0            0       4    100       0      0       104                 0        202           202
     Total    49      0     11       0         60        0   278   30    0     308     0     0     0    0            0       7    422       0      1       429                 1        797           798

    11:00     11      0      5       0         16        0    85   11    0      96     0     0     0    0            0       3    104       0      0       107                 0        219           219
    11:15     12      0      2       0         14        0    71   10    0      81     0     0     0    0            0       3     88       0      0        91                 0        186           186
    11:30      7      0      5       0         12        0    75    4    0      79     0     0     0    0            0       1     99       0      0       100                 0        191           191
    11:45      7      0      5       0         12        0    90    8    0      98     0     0     0    0            0       1     95       0      0        96                 0        206           206
     Total    37      0     17       0         54        0   321   33    0     354     0     0     0    0            0       8    386       0      0       394                 0        802           802

    12:00     13      0      4       0         17        0    91   11    0     102     0     0     0    0            0      12    101       0      0       113                 0        232           232
    12:15     12      0      3       0         15        0   100   10    0     110     0     0     0    0            0       5     92       0      0        97                 0        222           222
    12:30      6      0      3       0          9        0    99    8    0     107     0     0     0    0            0       3     98       0      0       101                 0        217           217
    12:45     12      0     10       0         22        0   109   14    0     123     0     0     0    0            0       4     82       0      0        86                 0        231           231
     Total    43      0     20       0         63        0   399   43    0     442     0     0     0    0            0      24    373       0      0       397                 0        902           902

    13:00      8      0      1       0          9        0    89    4    0      93     0     0     0    0            0       1     79       0      0        80                 0        182           182
    13:15     12      0      7       0         19        0   105   14    0     119     0     0     0    0            0       3     90       0      0        93                 0        231           231
    13:30     10      0      4       0         14        0   108   14    0     122     0     0     0    0            0       2    100       0      0       102                 0        238           238
    13:45      8      0      4       0         12        0   107    6    0     113     0     0     0    0            0       4     88       0      2        92                 2        217           219
     Total    38      0     16       0         54        0   409   38    0     447     0     0     0    0            0      10    357       0      2       367                 2        868           870

    14:00      6      0      5       1         11        0   101   10    2     111     0     0     0    0            0       5    101       0      5       106                 8        228           236
    14:15      6      0      0       0          6        0    97   10    0     107     0     0     0    0            0       4    106       0      0       110                 0        223           223
    14:30     14      0      2       0         16        0   129    8    0     137     0     0     0    0            0       3     98       0      0       101                 0        254           254
    14:45      7      0      4       0         11        0   121   18    0     139     0     0     0    0            0       3    107       0      0       110                 0        260           260
     Total    33      0     11       1         44        0   448   46    2     494     0     0     0    0            0      15    412       0      5       427                 8        965           973
                                                                              All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                        15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683
                                                                                      503-833-2740

                                                                                                                                   File Name             : Ellmaker&126 16HR
                                                                                                                                   Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date            : 6/2/2011
                                                                                                                                   Page No               :2
                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                     ELLMAKER RD                                 HWY 126                     ELLMAKER RD                              HWY 126
                      Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                            Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds    App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total

     15:00     13      0      5       0         18        0 105     11    0    116        0     0    0     0          0       6     87       0      0        93                 0      227            227
     15:15     13      0      2       0         15        0 144     25    0    169        0     0    0     0          0       3    101       0      0       104                 0      288            288
     15:30      9      0      1       0         10        0 163     19    0    182        0     0    0     0          0       3    100       0      0       103                 0      295            295
     15:45      7      0      6       1         13        0 147     18    0    165        0     0    0     0          0       2     81       0      1        83                 2      261            263
      Total    42      0     14       1         56        0 559     73    0    632        0     0    0     0          0      14    369       0      1       383                 2     1071           1073

     16:00     12      0      8       0         20        0   153     25     0     178     0   0    0    0            0       7     93       0      0       100                 0      298            298
     16:15     10      0      4       0         14        0   189     24     0     213     0   0    0    0            0       4     81       0      0        85                 0      312            312
     16:30      9      0      0       0          9        0   171     22     0     193     0   0    0    0            0       3     89       0      0        92                 0      294            294
     16:45      6      0      0       0          6        0   185     22     1     207     0   0    0    0            0       4     86       0      0        90                 1      303            304
      Total    37      0     12       0         49        0   698     93     1     791     0   0    0    0            0      18    349       0      0       367                 1     1207           1208

     17:00     11      0      0       0         11        0   142     27     0     169     0   0    0    0            0       5     94       0      0        99                 0      279            279
     17:15      6      0      0       0          6        0   189     32     0     221     0   0    0    0            0       4     73       0      0        77                 0      304            304
     17:30      8      0      8       0         16        0   196     30     0     226     0   0    0    0            0       3     70       0      0        73                 0      315            315
     17:45      6      0      6       0         12        0   175     26     0     201     0   0    0    0            0       5     60       0      0        65                 0      278            278
      Total    31      0     14       0         45        0   702    115     0     817     0   0    0    0            0      17    297       0      0       314                 0     1176           1176

     18:00     12      0      6       0         18        0   162     15     0     177     0   0    0    0            0       4     80       0      0        84                 0        279           279
     18:15      6      0      6       0         12        0   138     16     0     154     0   0    0    0            0       1     73       0      0        74                 0        240           240
     18:30      4      0      0       0          4        0   107     21     0     128     0   0    0    0            0       0     44       0      0        44                 0        176           176
     18:45      5      0      0       4          5        0    87     11     1      98     0   0    0    0            0       4     36       0      0        40                 5        143           148
      Total    27      0     12       4         39        0   494     63     1     557     0   0    0    0            0       9    233       0      0       242                 5        838           843

     19:00      3      0       0      0          3        0    94     11     2     105     0   0    0    0            0       4     45       0      0        49                 2        157           159
     19:15      1      0       1      0          2        0    71      5     0      76     0   0    0    0            0       1     40       0      0        41                 0        119           119
     19:30      3      0       3      0          6        0    76      7     0      83     0   0    0    0            0       6     44       0      0        50                 0        139           139
     19:45      5      0       2      0          7        0    71      8     0      79     0   0    0    0            0       1     41       0      0        42                 0        128           128
      Total    12      0       6      0         18        0   312     31     2     343     0   0    0    0            0      12    170       0      0       182                 2        543           545

     20:00      4      0       1      0          5        0    58      9     0      67     0   0    0    0            0       1     34       0      0        35                 0        107           107
     20:15      5      0       0      0          5        0    50      7     0      57     0   0    0    0            0       6     44       0      0        50                 0        112           112
     20:30      5      0       0      0          5        0    38      6     0      44     0   0    0    0            0       9     32       0      0        41                 0         90            90
     20:45      2      0       1      0          3        0    45      5     0      50     0   0    0    0            0       2     39       0      0        41                 0         94            94
      Total    16      0       2      0         18        0   191     27     0     218     0   0    0    0            0      18    149       0      0       167                 0        403           403

Grand Total   687      0    194       6      881          0   5675   668     6    6343     0   0    0    0            0     196    5661      0    12      5857               24       13081          13105
Apprch %        78     0      22                          0   89.5   10.5                  0   0    0                        3.3   96.7      0
 Total %       5.3     0     1.5              6.7         0   43.4    5.1          48.5    0   0    0                 0      1.5   43.3      0             44.8             0.2         99.8
Unshifted     667      0    185              858          0   5392   644          6042     0   0    0                 0     191    5362      0            5565                0            0 12465
% Unshifted   97.1     0    95.4    100     96.7          0    95    96.4   100    95.2    0   0    0    0            0     97.4   94.7      0    100      94.8               0            0 95.1
  Bank 1       20      0       9               29         0   283     24            307    0   0    0                 0       5    299       0              304               0            0   640
% Bank 1      2.9      0     4.6       0      3.3         0     5    3.6      0      4.8   0   0    0    0            0     2.6     5.3      0       0       5.2              0            0    4.9
                                                                           All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                     15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683
                                                                                   503-833-2740

                                                                                                                           File Name             : CentralPark&126 16HR
                                                                                                                           Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                           Start Date            : 6/2/2011
                                                                                                                           Page No               :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                     CENTRAL RD                                 HWY 126                      CENTRAL RD                              HWY 126
                      Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                            Eastbound
Start Time   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total

    05:00      0      0       0      0           0       1   10     0    0       11      1     0    7     0         8        0     32       0      0       32                 0         51            51
    05:15      0      0       0      0           0       0   22     0    0       22      0     0   12     0        12        0     48       0      0       48                 0         82            82
    05:30      0      0       0      0           0       1   25     0    0       26      0     0   15     0        15        0     58       0      0       58                 0         99            99
    05:45      0      0       0      0           0       9   17     0    0       26      0     0   17     0        17        0     79       2      0       81                 0        124           124
     Total     0      0       0      0           0      11   74     0    0       85      1     0   51     0        52        0    217       2      0      219                 0        356           356

    06:00      0      0       0      0           0       6    19     0    0     25      2     0    19    0       21          0     81       0      0       81                 0        127           127
    06:15      0      0       0      0           0       8    22     0    0     30      1     0    17    0       18          0    116       1      0      117                 0        165           165
    06:30      0      0       0      0           0       7    25     0    0     32      2     0    31    0       33          0    132       0      0      132                 0        197           197
    06:45      0      0       0      0           0      14    28     0    0     42      0     0    32    0       32          0    136       2      0      138                 0        212           212
     Total     0      0       0      0           0      35    94     0    0    129      5     0    99    0      104          0    465       3      0      468                 0        701           701

    07:00      0      0       0      0           0       7    32     0    0     39      0     0    35    0       35          0    175       1      2      176                 2      250            252
    07:15      0      0       0      0           0       8    50     0    0     58      0     0    37    0       37          0    198       4      0      202                 0      297            297
    07:30      0      0       0      0           0       7    66     0    0     73      0     0    33    0       33          0    253       1      0      254                 0      360            360
    07:45      0      0       0      0           0       9    54     0    0     63      3     0    30    0       33          0    164       0      0      164                 0      260            260
     Total     0      0       0      0           0      31   202     0    0    233      3     0   135    0      138          0    790       6      2      796                 2     1167           1169

    08:00      0      0       0      0           0       4    54     0    0     58      3     0    29    0       32          0    152       3      0      155                 0        245           245
    08:15      0      0       0      0           0       7    62     0    0     69      2     0    20    0       22          0    152       3      0      155                 0        246           246
    08:30      0      0       0      0           0      10    60     0    0     70      1     0    24    0       25          0    118       3      0      121                 0        216           216
    08:45      0      0       0      0           0       4    77     0    0     81      4     0    21    0       25          1    104       0      0      105                 0        211           211
     Total     0      0       0      0           0      25   253     0    0    278     10     0    94    0      104          1    526       9      0      536                 0        918           918

    09:00      0      0       0      0           0       6    63     0    0     69      2     0    19    0         21        0     92       2      0       94                 0        184           184
    09:15      0      0       0      0           0      10    87     1    0     98      1     0    17    0         18        1    124       0      0      125                 0        241           241
    09:30      0      0       0      0           0       6    77     0    0     83      2     0    16    0         18        0    101       1      0      102                 0        203           203
    09:45      3      0       0      0           3      14    73     1    0     88      3     0    14    0         17        2    101       0      0      103                 0        211           211
     Total     3      0       0      0           3      36   300     2    0    338      8     0    66    0         74        3    418       3      0      424                 0        839           839

    10:00      0      0       1      0           1       4    73     0    0     77      1     0    19    0         20        0    106       2      0      108                 0        206           206
    10:15      0      0       0      0           0       4    72     0    0     76      3     0    20    0         23        1    124       3      0      128                 0        227           227
    10:30      1      0       0      0           1      10    74     0    0     84      1     0    10    0         11        1    121       0      0      122                 0        218           218
    10:45      1      0       0      0           1      12    80     0    0     92      0     0    14    0         14        0    111       3      0      114                 0        221           221
     Total     2      0       1      0           3      30   299     0    0    329      5     0    63    0         68        2    462       8      0      472                 0        872           872

    11:00      1      0       1      0           2      12    90     1    0    103      3     0    11    0         14        2    107       1      0      110                 0        229           229
    11:15      0      0       2      0           2       9    78     0    0     87      1     0    15    0         16        1    100       0      0      101                 0        206           206
    11:30      1      0       0      0           1      16    82     3    0    101      0     0    19    0         19        0    104       3      0      107                 0        228           228
    11:45      2      0       2      0           4       7    99     0    0    106      3     1    12    0         16        0     95       1      0       96                 0        222           222
     Total     4      0       5      0           9      44   349     4    0    397      7     1    57    0         65        3    406       5      0      414                 0        885           885

    12:00      0      0       0      0           0      10    91     1    0    102      3     0    14    0         17        0    114       3      0      117                 0        236           236
    12:15      0      0       1      0           1      20   111     0    0    131      2     0    12    1         14        1    103       1      0      105                 1        251           252
    12:30      1      0       0      0           1      15   105     1    0    121      1     0    10    0         11        0    100       1      0      101                 0        234           234
    12:45      0      0       0      0           0      10   112     0    0    122      2     0    16    0         18        1     98       1      0      100                 0        240           240
     Total     1      0       1      0           2      55   419     2    0    476      8     0    52    1         60        2    415       6      0      423                 1        961           962

    13:00      1      0       1      0           2      13   100     1    0    114      1     0     8    0          9        1     81       2      0       84                 0        209           209
    13:15      0      0       0      0           0      18   119     1    0    138      2     0    12    0         14        1     94       1      0       96                 0        248           248
    13:30      1      0       1      0           2      17   119     1    0    137      0     0    11    0         11        0    115       4      0      119                 0        269           269
    13:45      0      0       0      0           0      12   106     0    0    118      3     0     9    0         12        0     90       0      0       90                 0        220           220
     Total     2      0       2      0           4      60   444     3    0    507      6     0    40    0         46        2    380       7      0      389                 0        946           946

    14:00      1      0       0      0           1       5   107     0    0    112      2     0    17    0         19        2    110       2      0      114                 0      246            246
    14:15      0      0       1      0           1      13   106     2    0    121      3     0    14    0         17        0    100       4      0      104                 0      243            243
    14:30      2      0       1      0           3      17   135     1    2    153      5     0    12    0         17        1    112       1      0      114                 2      287            289
    14:45      0      1       0      0           1      20   136     0    0    156      1     0    13    0         14        1    117       1      0      119                 0      290            290
     Total     3      1       2      0           6      55   484     3    2    542     11     0    56    0         67        4    439       8      0      451                 2     1066           1068
                                                                               All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                         15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683
                                                                                       503-833-2740

                                                                                                                                    File Name             : CentralPark&126 16HR
                                                                                                                                    Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                                    Start Date            : 6/2/2011
                                                                                                                                    Page No               :2
                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                      CENTRAL RD                                 HWY 126                      CENTRAL RD                                      HWY 126
                       Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                                    Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total

     15:00      0      0       2      0           2      22   97     3    0    122        3     0   22     0                25        0     97      4       0      101                 0      250            250
     15:15      1      0       1      0           2      27 166      0    0    193        0     0    5     0                 5        0    107      3       0      110                 0      310            310
     15:30      0      0       0      0           0      13 183      0    0    196        1     0   18     0                19        0    100      7       0      107                 0      322            322
     15:45      1      0       1      0           2      37 164      1    0    202        2     0   26     0                28        1     83      4       0       88                 0      320            320
      Total     2      0       4      0           6      99 610      4    0    713        6     0   71     0                77        1    387     18       0      406                 0     1202           1202

     16:00      0      0       1      0           1      21    173      1     0     195       1      0     10     0         11        0    103       2      0      105                 0      312            312
     16:15      0      0       2      0           2      24    212      1     0     237       1      0     12     0         13        1     95       2      0       98                 0      350            350
     16:30      2      0       0      0           2      27    180      1     0     208       4      0     18     0         22        0     94       1      0       95                 0      327            327
     16:45      0      0       0      0           0      28    189      0     0     217       3      0     20     0         23        0     93       3      0       96                 0      336            336
      Total     2      0       3      0           5     100    754      3     0     857       9      0     60     0         69        1    385       8      0      394                 0     1325           1325

     17:00      0      0       1      0           1      28    162      1     0     191       7      0     13     0         20        1    104      2       0      107                 0      319            319
     17:15      1      0       0      0           1      40    224      0     0     264       4      0     22     0         26        0     78      3       0       81                 0      372            372
     17:30      1      0       1      0           2      43    213      1     0     257       2      0      8     0         10        1     71      1       0       73                 0      342            342
     17:45      0      0       1      0           1      32    212      1     0     245       1      0     12     0         13        0     66      6       0       72                 0      331            331
      Total     2      0       3      0           5     143    811      3     0     957      14      0     55     0         69        2    319     12       0      333                 0     1364           1364

     18:00      0      0       0      0           0      22    163      0     0     185       2      0     21     0         23        0     91       3      0       94                 0        302           302
     18:15      1      0       0      0           1      18    153      0     0     171       3      0      5     0          8        1     71       3      0       75                 0        255           255
     18:30      0      0       1      0           1      17    120      1     0     138       1      0     10     0         11        0     49       2      0       51                 0        201           201
     18:45      0      0       0      0           0      21    106      0     0     127       0      0      5     0          5        0     41       0      0       41                 0        173           173
      Total     1      0       1      0           2      78    542      1     0     621       6      0     41     0         47        1    252       8      0      261                 0        931           931

     19:00      0      0       1      0           1      21     97      0     0     118       0      0      4     0          4        0     44       1      0       45                 0        168           168
     19:15      0      0       0      0           0      23     82      0     0     105       0      1     17     0         18        1     40       1      0       42                 0        165           165
     19:30      1      0       0      0           1      18     72      0     0      90       2      0      3     0          5        0     39       2      0       41                 0        137           137
     19:45      0      0       0      0           0      16     83      0     0      99       1      0      4     0          5        0     50       0      0       50                 0        154           154
      Total     1      0       1      0           2      78    334      0     0     412       3      1     28     0         32        1    173       4      0      178                 0        624           624

     20:00      0      0       0      0           0      10     68      0     0      78       1      0      3     0          4        0     38       1      0       39                 0        121           121
     20:15      0      0       1      0           1      13     56      1     0      70       1      0      2     0          3        0     49       0      0       49                 0        123           123
     20:30      0      0       0      0           0      12     54      0     0      66       1      0      6     0          7        0     26       0      0       26                 0         99            99
     20:45      0      0       0      0           0      12     56      0     0      68       0      0      7     0          7        0     37       2      0       39                 0        114           114
      Total     0      0       1      0           1      47    234      1     0     282       3      0     18     0         21        0    150       3      0      153                 0        457           457

Grand Total    23       1     24      0         48      927    6203    26     2    7156     105       2   986     1    1093          23    6184   110       2    6317                  5 14614              14619
Apprch %      47.9    2.1     50                          13   86.7   0.4                    9.6    0.2   90.2                      0.4    97.9    1.7
 Total %      0.2       0    0.2             0.3         6.3   42.4   0.2              49    0.7      0    6.7           7.5        0.2    42.3    0.8            43.2                 0        100
Unshifted      21       1     23              45        899    5868    24          6793       96      2   955          1054          22    5873   105            6002                  0          0 13894
% Unshifted   91.3   100    95.8       0    93.8          97   94.6   92.3   100    94.9    91.4   100    96.9   100    96.3        95.7    95    95.5    100       95                 0          0    95
  Bank 1        2       0      1               3          28   335      2            365      9       0    31             40          1    311       5             317                 0          0   725
% Bank 1      8.7       0    4.2       0     6.2           3    5.4   7.7      0      5.1   8.6       0   3.1      0     3.7        4.3      5     4.5       0       5                 0          0     5
                                                                           All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                     15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683
                                                                                   503-833-2740

                                                                                                                                 File Name             : GreenHill&126 16HR
                                                                                                                                 Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date            : 6/2/2011
                                                                                                                                 Page No               :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                    GREEN HILL RD                               HWY 126                     GREEN HILL RD                            HWY 126
                      Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                            Eastbound
Start Time   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total

    05:00      0      1       0      0          1        0     9    1    0       10      0     0    7     0         7        1     31       0      0       32                 0         50            50
    05:15      1      1       0      0          2        3   15     2    0       20      0     2    6     0         8        4     33       0      0       37                 0         67            67
    05:30      2      0       1      0          3        3   19     5    0       27      0     1   10     0        11        5     65       0      0       70                 0        111           111
    05:45      3      0       2      0          5        1   21     1    0       23      0     2   13     0        15        1     73       0      0       74                 0        117           117
     Total     6      2       3      0         11        7   64     9    0       80      0     5   36     0        41       11    202       0      0      213                 0        345           345

    06:00      1      0      3       0          4        2    20    1    0      23     0    0     0    0            0        0     92       0      0       92                 0        119           119
    06:15      3      3      1       0          7        6    19    2    0      27     0    2     7    0            9        4     93       0      1       97                 1        140           141
    06:30      4      3      4       0         11        5    28    6    0      39     0   10    21    0           31        1    129       0      0      130                 0        211           211
    06:45     13      3      2       1         18        2    33    3    0      38     0    9    30    0           39        8    164       0      1      172                 2        267           269
     Total    21      9     10       1         40       15   100   12    0     127     0   21    58    0           79       13    478       0      2      491                 3        737           740

    07:00      7      7       0      0         14        2    31    2    0      35     2    8    25    0         35          1    177       0      0      178                 0      262            262
    07:15      7      3       0      0         10        4    40    7    0      51     1    6    33    0         40          5    200       0      0      205                 0      306            306
    07:30     13      7       1      0         21        4    72    9    0      85     0   10    32    0         42          7    245       0      1      252                 1      400            401
    07:45     28     10       0      0         38       10    38   11    0      59     4    8    33    0         45          9    235       2      0      246                 0      388            388
     Total    55     27       1      0         83       20   181   29    0     230     7   32   123    0        162         22    857       2      1      881                 1     1356           1357

    08:00     16      1      3       0         20        7    43    6    0      56     0   11    36    0         47          6    162       0      0      168                 0      291            291
    08:15      6      6      5       0         17       15    60    4    0      79     1   11    29    0         41          2    155       1      0      158                 0      295            295
    08:30     15      2     10       0         27        9    65    4    0      78     1    9    19    0         29          6    142       0      0      148                 0      282            282
    08:45     10      7      5       0         22       10    56   13    0      79     0    7    26    0         33          3    130       1      0      134                 0      268            268
     Total    47     16     23       0         86       41   224   27    0     292     2   38   110    0        150         17    589       2      0      608                 0     1136           1136

    09:00      3      4      0       0          7        6    67    9    0      82     0    3    23    0           26        5     97       2      0      104                 0        219           219
    09:15     15      5      7       0         27        7    82    7    0      96     1    5    16    0           22        5    117       0      0      122                 0        267           267
    09:30      5      3      8       0         16       13    73    3    0      89     1    4    13    0           18        2    131       1      0      134                 0        257           257
    09:45      5      5      5       0         15        4    64    7    0      75     2    5    12    0           19        3    109       1      0      113                 0        222           222
     Total    28     17     20       0         65       30   286   26    0     342     4   17    64    0           85       15    454       4      0      473                 0        965           965

    10:00      6      6      6       0         18       11    71    5    0      87     0    5     8    0           13        2     97       0      1       99                 1      217            218
    10:15      9      5      0       0         14       11    69    8    0      88     0    7    17    0           24        4    118       1      0      123                 0      249            249
    10:30     10      7      3       0         20       14    78    8    0     100     0    7    10    0           17        5    115       2      0      122                 0      259            259
    10:45      2      8      7       0         17        8    83   12    0     103     1    7    15    0           23       11    126       1      0      138                 0      281            281
     Total    27     26     16       0         69       44   301   33    0     378     1   26    50    0           77       22    456       4      1      482                 1     1006           1007

    11:00     11      4      3       0         18       11    85    9    0     105     2    1     4    0            7        6     96       2      0      104                 0      234            234
    11:15      8      7      3       0         18       12    70    7    0      89     1    2    10    0           13        8    112       2      0      122                 0      242            242
    11:30      5      8      3       0         16       20    95   16    0     131     0    6    25    0           31        5    105       2      0      112                 0      290            290
    11:45      8      4      3       0         15        8   100   13    0     121     1    3    12    0           16        6     95       0      0      101                 0      253            253
     Total    32     23     12       0         67       51   350   45    0     446     4   12    51    0           67       25    408       6      0      439                 0     1019           1019

    12:00     11      4      9       0       24          6    88   14    0     108     0    1    14    0           15        9    123       0      0      132                 0      279            279
    12:15     15      5      6       0       26         13   121    6    0     140     1    3    18    0           22        6     97       0      0      103                 0      291            291
    12:30      9      3     11       0       23         10    98   11    0     119     1    8    18    0           27        6    103       1      0      110                 0      279            279
    12:45     16      6      7       0       29         16   101   11    0     128     3    9    15    0           27        6    103       1      2      110                 2      294            296
     Total    51     18     33       0      102         45   408   42    0     495     5   21    65    0           91       27    426       2      2      455                 2     1143           1145

    13:00     10      9      9       0         28       20    96   16    0     132     1    7    18    0           26        8     92       1      0      101                 0      287            287
    13:15      7      3      7       0         17       15   114   18    0     147     1   10    13    0           24        7     98       0      0      105                 0      293            293
    13:30     11     10      3       0         24       14   113   10    0     137     3    6    12    0           21        6    109       0      0      115                 0      297            297
    13:45     13      4      2       0         19       17    93    7    0     117     0    3    12    0           15        4     91       1      0       96                 0      247            247
     Total    41     26     21       0         88       66   416   51    0     533     5   26    55    0           86       25    390       2      0      417                 0     1124           1124

    14:00      9     10      6       0       25         22    95   10    0     127     1    6    21    1           28        2    103       0      0      105                 1      285            286
    14:15     12      8      9       0       29         15   101   12    0     128     1   12     7    0           20        6    105       0      0      111                 0      288            288
    14:30      8      7      5       0       20         16   135   15    0     166     0    4    18    0           22        7    104       0      0      111                 0      319            319
    14:45     12     10      9       0       31         17   129   11    0     157     1    5    11    0           17        9    108       3      0      120                 0      325            325
     Total    41     35     29       0      105         70   460   48    0     578     3   27    57    1           87       24    420       3      0      447                 1     1217           1218
                                                                               All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
                                                                         15105 SE 17th St. Vancouver, WA. 98683
                                                                                       503-833-2740

                                                                                                                                         File Name             : GreenHill&126 16HR
                                                                                                                                         Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                                         Start Date            : 6/2/2011
                                                                                                                                         Page No               :2
                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                     GREEN HILL RD                               HWY 126                     GREEN HILL RD                                   HWY 126
                       Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total

     15:00     15      5     12       0       32         20 112     14    0    146        3     5    6     0              14        8     109       2      0      119                 0      311            311
     15:15     12     11     12       0       35         17 153     16    0    186        3   10    17     0              30        6      88       3      0       97                 0      348            348
     15:30     11     10     12       0       33         30 174      8    0    212        1   14    18     0              33        5      95       1      0      101                 0      379            379
     15:45      7      5     16       0       28         30 151     13    0    194        2     8   11     0              21        8     111       1      0      120                 0      363            363
      Total    45     31     52       0      128         97 590     51    0    738        9   37    52     0              98       27     403       7      0      437                 0     1401           1401

     16:00     11     12      9       0       32         21    176     22    0    219       1      4     15     0         20        8     107       0      0      115                 0      386            386
     16:15     19     14      7       0       40         23    191      9    0    223       1      8     11     0         20        3     103       1      0      107                 0      390            390
     16:30     10     12     15       0       37         19    189     17    0    225       1      8      8     0         17        7      80       0      0       87                 0      366            366
     16:45     13     17      6       0       36         25    181     15    0    221       1      4     11     0         16        4     103       1      0      108                 0      381            381
      Total    53     55     37       0      145         88    737     63    0    888       4     24     45     0         73       22     393       2      0      417                 0     1523           1523

     17:00      9     13      5       0       27         27    183     16    0    226       0      5      9     0         14        7     100       1      0      108                 0      375            375
     17:15     17      9     11       0       37         34    224     16    0    274       1      7     17     0         25        6      87       1      0       94                 0      430            430
     17:30     11     11     13       0       35         27    228     15    0    270       2      6     13     0         21        6      79       2      0       87                 0      413            413
     17:45     12     11     11       0       34         28    199     16    0    243       0      8      8     0         16        4      60       1      0       65                 0      358            358
      Total    49     44     40       0      133        116    834     63    0   1013       3     26     47     0         76       23     326       5      0      354                 0     1576           1576

     18:00      6      6      0       0         12       28    154     10    0    192       1      5      7     0         13        6      83       1      1       90                 1      307            308
     18:15     10     10      1       0         21       24    142     13    0    179       0      6     13     0         19        2      79       1      0       82                 0      301            301
     18:30      7      3      3       0         13       32    121     11    0    164       1      4      6     0         11        4      66       1      0       71                 0      259            259
     18:45      3      6      6       0         15       17    102     10    0    129       1      3      7     0         11        2      39       0      0       41                 0      196            196
      Total    26     25     10       0         61      101    519     44    0    664       3     18     33     0         54       14     267       3      1      284                 1     1063           1064

     19:00      5      5      5       0         15       11     96      5    0    112       0      1      5     0          6        1      44       0      0       45                 0        178           178
     19:15      5      8      2       0         15       20     93      6    0    119       1      3      3     0          7        0      46       2      0       48                 0        189           189
     19:30      4      6      5       0         15       13     75     12    0    100       0      3      5     0          8        2      43       1      0       46                 0        169           169
     19:45      4      7      2       0         13       16     82      4    0    102       1      2      5     0          8        0      42       0      0       42                 0        165           165
      Total    18     26     14       0         58       60    346     27    0    433       2      9     18     0         29        3     175       3      0      181                 0        701           701

     20:00      2      4      5       0         11       12     63      3    0     78       1      4      5     0         10        4      38       0      0       42                 0        141           141
     20:15      4      2      1       0          7       24     59      7    0     90       0      2      7     0          9        3      39       0      0       42                 0        148           148
     20:30      2      2      5       0          9       13     52      8    0     73       0      4      9     0         13        6      33       2      0       41                 0        136           136
     20:45      2      6      0       0          8       15     62      5    0     82       1      9      9     0         19        3      28       0      0       31                 0        140           140
      Total    10     14     11       0         35       64    236     23    0    323       2     19     30     0         51       16     138       2      0      156                 0        565           565

Grand Total   550    394    332       1    1276         915    6052   593    0   7560      54    358    894     1    1306         306     6382     47      7    6735                  9 16877              16886
Apprch %      43.1   30.9    26                         12.1   80.1    7.8                4.1    27.4   68.5                       4.5    94.8    0.7
 Total %       3.3    2.3     2              7.6         5.4   35.9    3.5        44.8    0.3     2.1    5.3           7.7         1.8    37.8    0.3            39.9             0.1         99.9
Unshifted     531    363    316            1211         873    5723   567        7163      49    339    845          1234         297     6056     42           6402                0            0 16010
% Unshifted   96.5   92.1   95.2    100     94.8        95.4   94.6   95.6   0    94.7    90.7   94.7   94.5   100    94.4        97.1    94.9   89.4    100       95               0            0 94.8
  Bank 1       19     31      16              66         42    329     26          397      5     19     49             73          9     326       5             340               0            0   876
% Bank 1      3.5    7.9     4.8       0     5.2        4.6     5.4   4.4    0      5.3   9.3    5.3    5.5      0     5.6        2.9      5.1   10.6       0       5               0            0    5.2
                                Seasonal Adjustment Factor




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                 P09042019 
OR 126W Seasonal Adjustment Factor Calculations

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Peak
                                                                                             2010 SEASONAL TREND TABLE (Printed: 07/07/10)                                                                                                               Period
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Seasonal
            TREND                      1-Jan   15-Jan   1-Feb   15-Feb   1-Mar   15-Mar   1-Apr   15-Apr 1-May 15-May 1-Jun          15-Jun    1-Jul    15-Jul   1-Aug 15-Aug 1-Sep       15-Sep   1-Oct      15-Oct   1-Nov 15-Nov 1-Dec    15-Dec      Factor
INTERSTATE URBANIZED                    1.00
                                        1 00    1 01
                                                1.01     0.99
                                                         0 99    0.97
                                                                 0 97     0.96
                                                                          0 96    0 95
                                                                                  0.95     0.94
                                                                                           0 94    0 93
                                                                                                   0.93   0.94
                                                                                                          0 94  0.94
                                                                                                                0 94   0 93
                                                                                                                       0.93           0 91
                                                                                                                                      0.91     0.91
                                                                                                                                               0 91      0.91
                                                                                                                                                         0 91     0.91
                                                                                                                                                                  0 91  0 91
                                                                                                                                                                        0.91   0 93
                                                                                                                                                                               0.93        0.94
                                                                                                                                                                                           0 94     0.95
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0 95       0.95
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0 95     0.96
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0 96  0.98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0 98   0.98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0 98     0.99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0 99        0.91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0 91
INTERSTATE NONURBANIZED                 1.26    1.33     1.28    1.23     1.16    1.10     1.08    1.06   1.03  1.00   0.95           0.91     0.88      0.84     0.85  0.85   0.90        0.94     0.99       1.04     1.05  1.06   1.12     1.18        0.84
COMMUTER                                1.01    1.02     1.01    0.99     0.98    0.98     0.95    0.93   0.93  0.93   0.92           0.90     0.90      0.90     0.90  0.90   0.91        0.93     0.93       0.94     0.96  0.99   1.00     1.01        0.90
COASTAL DESTINATION                     1.20    1.22     1.20    1.18     1.14    1.09     1.09    1.08   1.06  1.04   0.99           0.94     0.88      0.82     0.82  0.83   0.88        0.94     1.01       1.07     1.12  1.16   1.17     1.18        0.82
COASTAL DESTINATION ROUTE               1.46    1.53     1.49    1.44     1.36    1.28     1.24    1.20   1.15  1.09   1.03           0.96     0.86      0.76     0.77  0.77   0.85        0.93     1.06       1.18     1.25  1.32   1.36     1.39        0.76
AGRICULTURE                             1.16    1.18     1.15    1.13     1.11    1.08     1.04    0.99   0.96  0.94   0.92           0.90     0.89      0.88     0.87  0.87   0.89        0.91     0.92       0.93     0.97  1.01   1.07     1.14        0.87
RECREATIONAL SUMMER                     1.82    1.95     1.90    1.84     1.73    1.63     1.51    1.40   1.22  1.03   0.95           0.87     0.80      0.74     0.75  0.77   0.82        0.88     1.00       1.11     1.30  1.48   1.59     1.69        0.74
RECREATIONAL SUMMER WINTER              1.22    1.35     1.35    1.35     1.36    1.37     1.53    1.69   1.64  1.60   1.35           1.09     0.97      0.85     0.91  0.96   1.11        1.27     1.61       1.96     1.74  1.51   1.30     1.08        0.85
RECREATIONAL WINTER                     0.98    1.07     1.16    1.25     1.07    0.89     1.30    1.72   2.26  2.80   2.23           1.66     1.42      1.19     1.27  1.35   1.48        1.61     2.05       2.49     2.10  1.71   1.31     0.90        0.89
SUMMER                                  1.19    1.23     1.20    1.17     1.14    1.12     1.07    1.02   0.99  0.95   0.92           0.89     0.86      0.83     0.84  0.84   0.88        0.91     0.95       0.99     1.04  1.09   1.12     1.16        0.83
SUMMER < 2500                           1.34    1.41     1.37    1.33     1.25    1.18     1.10    1.03   0.96  0.90   0.87           0.83     0.81      0.80     0.81  0.82   0.83        0.84     0.89       0.93     1.01  1.08   1.18     1.27        0.80

*Seasonal Trend Table factors are based on previous year ATR data and the table is updated yearly.
                                                                                                     Average for June 1st =   0.95   = Factor for adjustment to average annual traffic                                      Average for Peak Period =     0.86




                                                                                                                                                              _X_
                                                                                                                                                               X
                                                                                                                                                               X =         1.11 Seasonal factor for 30th HV
                              Level of Service Descriptions




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                 P09042019 
TRAFFIC LEVELS OF SERVICE
Analysis of traffic volumes is useful in understanding the general nature of traffic in an area, but by itself
indicates neither the ability of the street network to carry additional traffic nor the quality of service
afforded by the street facilities. For this, the concept of level of service has been developed to subjectively
describe traffic performance. Level of service can be measured at intersections and along key roadway
segments.

Level of service categories are similar to report card ratings for traffic performance. Intersections are
typically the controlling bottlenecks of traffic flow and the ability of a roadway system to carry traffic
efficiently is generally diminished in their vicinities. Levels of Service A, B and C indicate conditions
where traffic moves without significant delays over periods of peak travel demand. Level of service D and
E are progressively worse peak hour operating conditions and F conditions represent where demand
exceeds the capacity of an intersection. Most urban communities set level of service D as the minimum
acceptable level of service for peak hour operation and plan for level of service C or better for all other
times of the day. The Highway Capacity Manual provides level of service calculation methodology for
both intersections and arterials. 1 The following two sections provide interpretations of the analysis
approaches.




   1
       2000 Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board, Washington D.C., 2000, Chapters 16 and 17.
UNSIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS (Two-Way Stop Controlled)

Unsignalized intersection level of service is reported for the major street and minor street (generally, left
turn movements). The method assesses available and critical gaps in the traffic stream which make it
possible for side street traffic to enter the main street flow. The 2000 Highway Capacity Manual describes
the detailed methodology. It is not unusual for an intersection to experience level of service E or F
conditions for the minor street left turn movement. It should be understood that, often, a poor level of
service is experienced by only a few vehicles and the intersection as a whole operates acceptably.

Unsignalized intersection levels of service are described in the following table.

Level of Service Expected Delay     (Sec/Veh)


       A         Little or no delay   0-10.0

          B                  Short traffic delay                                             >10.1-15.0

          C                  Average traffic delays                                          >15.1-25.0

          D                  Long traffic delays                                             >25.1-35.0

          E                  Very long traffic delays                                        >35.1-50.0

          F                  Extreme delays potentially affecting                              > 50
                             other traffic movements in the intersection



Source:       2000 Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board Washington, D.C.
SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS

For signalized intersections, level of service is evaluated based upon average vehicle delay experienced by
vehicles entering an intersection. Control delay (or signal delay) includes initial deceleration delay, queue
move-up time, stopped delay, and final acceleration delay. In previous versions of this chapter of the HCM
(1994 and earlier), delay included only stopped delay. As delay increases, the level of service decreases.
Calculations for signalized and unsignalized intersections are different due to the variation in traffic
control. The 2000 Highway Capacity Manual provides the basis for these calculations.


    Level of Delay
    Service  (secs.)               Description
    
      A      <10.00  Free Flow/Insignificant Delays: No approach phase is fully utilized by traffic and no vehicle waits
                     longer than one red indication. Most vehicles do not stop at all. Progression is extremely favorable and
                     most vehicles arrive during the green phase.

        B          10.1-20.0        Stable Operation/Minimal Delays: An occasional approach phase is fully utilized. Many drivers begin
                                    to feel somewhat restricted within platoons of vehicles. This level generally occurs with good progression,
                                    short cycle lengths, or both.

        C          20.1-35.0        Stable Operation/Acceptable Delays: Major approach phases fully utilized. Most drivers feel somewhat
                                    restricted. Higher delays may result from fair progression, longer cycle lengths, or both. Individual cycle
                                    failures may begin to appear at this level, and the number of vehicles stopping is significant.

        D          35.1-55.0        Approaching Unstable/Tolerable Delays: The influence of congestion becomes more noticeable.
                                    Drivers may have to wait through more than one red signal indication. Longer delays may result from
                                    some combination of unfavorable progression, long cycle lengths, or high v/c ratios. The proportion of
                                    vehicles not stopping declines, and individual cycle failures are noticeable.

        E          55.1-80.0        Unstable Operation/Significant Delays: Volumes at or near capacity. Vehicles may wait though several
                                    signal cycles. Long queues form upstream from intersection. These high delay values generally indicate
                                    poor progression, long cycle lengths, and high v/c ratios. Individual cycle failures are a frequent
                                    occurrence.

        F          >80.0            Forced Flow/Excessive Delays: Represents jammed conditions. Queues may block upstream
                                    intersections. This level occurs when arrival flow rates exceed intersection capacity, and is considered to
                                    be unacceptable to most drivers. Poor progression, long cycle lengths, and v/c ratios approaching 1.0 may
                                    contribute to these high delay levels.


    
                  Source: 2000 Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board, Washington D.C.
             HCM Intersection Analysis ­ 30th HV




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan      P09042019 
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                              OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study             HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                              OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
1: OR 126(W) & Huston Rd                                                                       2011 30th Highest Hour      2: OR 126(W) & Driveway 1                                                                   2011 30th Highest Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT    WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR    Movement                   EBL      EBT      WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                        Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free                      Free                   Stop                   Stop           Sign Control                        Free     Free            Stop
Grade                                0%                        0%                     0%                     0%            Grade                                0%       0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)               15      345       20    145       660      20      15      5      50     10       5      20   Volume (veh/h)                1      405      825       1       1       1
Peak Hour Factor           0.93     0.93     0.93    0.93     0.93    0.93    0.93   0.93    0.93   0.93    0.93    0.93   Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)       16      371       22    156       710      22      16      5      54     11       5      22   Hourly flow rate (vph)        1      431      878       1       1       1
Pedestrians                             2                                               3                      1           Pedestrians                             2                       4
Lane Width (ft)                     12.0                                             12.0                   12.0           Lane Width (ft)                     12.0                     12.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)                  4.0                                             4.0                    4.0           Walking Speed (ft/s)                  4.0                     4.0
Percent Blockage                        0                                               0                      0           Percent Blockage                        0                       0
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                     Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                                          None                   None           Median type                                                  None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                        Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                       Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                      pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     711                        374                    1454    1429    374    1482    1429    713    vC, conflicting volume     883                               1315     884
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                      vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                      vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         711                        374                    1454    1429    374    1482    1429    713    vCu, unblocked vol         883                               1315     884
tC, single (s)              4.1                        4.1                     7.1     6.5    6.2     7.2     6.5    6.3   tC, single (s)              4.1                                6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                            tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                        2.2                     3.5     4.0    3.3    3.6      4.0    3.4   tF (s)                      2.2                                3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %             98                         87                      82      95     92     86       95     95    p0 queue free %            100                                 99     100
cM capacity (veh/h)        897                       1182                      88     116    664     76      116    415    cM capacity (veh/h)        772                                175     346
Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2     EB 3 WB 1 WB 2 WB 3             NB 1    SB 1                                  Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1          SB 1
Volume Total                16       371        22 156  710    22              75      38                                  Volume Total               432  879             2
Volume Left                 16          0        0 156     0    0              16      11                                  Volume Left                   1    0            1
Volume Right                  0         0       22    0    0   22              54      22                                  Volume Right                  0    1            1
cSH                        897      1700     1700 1182 1700 1700              242     157                                  cSH                        772 1700           232
Volume to Capacity        0.02       0.22     0.01 0.13 0.42 0.01            0.31    0.24                                  Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.52          0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)        1         0        0   11    0    0              32      22                                  Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            1
Control Delay (s)           9.1       0.0      0.0  8.5  0.0  0.0            26.4    35.0                                  Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0         20.6
Lane LOS                      A                       A                         D       E                                  Lane LOS                      A                 C
Approach Delay (s)          0.4                     1.5                      26.4    35.0                                  Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.0         20.6
Approach LOS                                                                    D       E                                  Approach LOS                                    C
Intersection Summary                                                                                                       Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                  3.4                                                                         Average Delay                                  0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           53.1%           ICU Level of Service               A                           Intersection Capacity Utilization           54.1%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                           15                                                                         Analysis Period (min)                           15




DKS Associates                                                                                        Synchro 6 Report     DKS Associates                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                      Page 1      7/19/2011                                                                                                 Page 2
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study       HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
3: OR 126(W) & Driveway 2                                                                  2011 30th Highest Hour   4: OR 126(W) & Driveway 3                                                                  2011 30th Highest Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                             Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                 Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                    Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                     Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                0      405     825       0       0       2                                            Volume (veh/h)                0      405     820       2       1       5
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94                                            Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      431     878       0       0       2                                            Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      431     872       2       1       5
Pedestrians                                                                                                         Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                     Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                    Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                              Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                    Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                 Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                               pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     878                              1309     878                                            vC, conflicting volume     874                              1304     873
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                               vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                               vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         878                              1309     878                                            vCu, unblocked vol         874                              1304     873
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                           tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                     tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                           tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                               100      99                                            p0 queue free %            100                                99      98
cM capacity (veh/h)        778                               178     350                                            cM capacity (veh/h)        780                               179     352
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                    Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               431  878            2                                                                    Volume Total               431  874            6
Volume Left                   0    0           0                                                                    Volume Left                   0    0           1
Volume Right                  0    0           2                                                                    Volume Right                  0    2           5
cSH                        778 1700          350                                                                    cSH                        780 1700          303
Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.52         0.01                                                                    Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.51         0.02
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           0                                                                    Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           2
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        15.3                                                                    Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        17.1
Lane LOS                                       C                                                                    Lane LOS                                       C
Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    15.3                                                                    Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    17.1
Approach LOS                                   C                                                                    Approach LOS                                   C
Intersection Summary                                                                                                Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.0                                                                   Average Delay                                 0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization          53.4%          ICU Level of Service            A                         Intersection Capacity Utilization          53.3%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                   Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report    DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 3     7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 4
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study       HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
5: OR 126(W) & Driveway 4                                                                  2011 30th Highest Hour   6: OR 126(W) & Driveway 5                                                                  2011 30th Highest Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                             Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                 Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                    Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                     Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                0      405     820       0       0       1                                            Volume (veh/h)                0      405     815       0       0       5
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94                                            Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      431     872       0       0       1                                            Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      431     867       0       0       5
Pedestrians                                                                                                         Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                     Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                    Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                              Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                    Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                 Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                               pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     872                              1303     872                                            vC, conflicting volume     867                              1298     867
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                               vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                               vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         872                              1303     872                                            vCu, unblocked vol         867                              1298     867
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                           tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                     tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                           tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                               100     100                                            p0 queue free %            100                               100      99
cM capacity (veh/h)        782                               179     353                                            cM capacity (veh/h)        785                               180     355
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                    Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               431  872            1                                                                    Volume Total               431  867            5
Volume Left                   0    0           0                                                                    Volume Left                   0    0           0
Volume Right                  0    0           1                                                                    Volume Right                  0    0           5
cSH                        782 1700          353                                                                    cSH                        785 1700          355
Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.51         0.00                                                                    Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.51         0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           0                                                                    Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           1
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        15.2                                                                    Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        15.3
Lane LOS                                       C                                                                    Lane LOS                                       C
Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    15.2                                                                    Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    15.3
Approach LOS                                   C                                                                    Approach LOS                                   C
Intersection Summary                                                                                                Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.0                                                                   Average Delay                                 0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization          53.2%          ICU Level of Service            A                         Intersection Capacity Utilization          52.9%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                   Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report    DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 5     7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 6
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study       HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
7: OR 126(W) & Driveway 6                                                                  2011 30th Highest Hour   8: OR 126(W) & Driveway 7                                                                  2011 30th Highest Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                             Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                 Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                    Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                     Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                1      405     815       2       1       1                                            Volume (veh/h)                2      405     815       5       5       1
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94                                            Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)        1      431     867       2       1       1                                            Hourly flow rate (vph)        2      431     867       5       5       1
Pedestrians                                                                                                         Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                     Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                    Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                              Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                    Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                 Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                               pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     869                              1301     868                                            vC, conflicting volume     872                              1305     870
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                               vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                               vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         869                              1301     868                                            vCu, unblocked vol         872                              1305     870
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                           tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                     tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                           tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                                99     100                                            p0 queue free %            100                                97     100
cM capacity (veh/h)        784                               179     355                                            cM capacity (veh/h)        782                               178     354
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                    Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               432  869            2                                                                    Volume Total               433  872            6
Volume Left                   1    0           1                                                                    Volume Left                   2    0           5
Volume Right                  0    2           1                                                                    Volume Right                  0    5           1
cSH                        784 1700          238                                                                    cSH                        782 1700          194
Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.51         0.01                                                                    Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.51         0.03
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           1                                                                    Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           3
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        20.3                                                                    Control Delay (s)           0.1  0.0        24.2
Lane LOS                      A                C                                                                    Lane LOS                      A                C
Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.0        20.3                                                                    Approach Delay (s)          0.1  0.0        24.2
Approach LOS                                   C                                                                    Approach LOS                                   C
Intersection Summary                                                                                                Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.0                                                                   Average Delay                                 0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization          53.0%          ICU Level of Service            A                         Intersection Capacity Utilization          53.2%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                   Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report    DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 7     7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 8
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study       HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
9: OR 126(W) & Driveway 8                                                                  2011 30th Highest Hour   10: OR 126(W) & Driveway 9                                                                 2011 30th Highest Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                             Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                 Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                    Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                     Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                0      410     815       1       0       5                                            Volume (veh/h)                0      410     815       1       1       1
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94                                            Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      436     867       1       0       5                                            Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      436     867       1       1       1
Pedestrians                                                                                                         Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                     Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                    Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                              Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                    Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                 Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                               pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     868                              1304     868                                            vC, conflicting volume     868                              1304     868
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                               vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                               vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         868                              1304     868                                            vCu, unblocked vol         868                              1304     868
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                           tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                     tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                           tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                               100      99                                            p0 queue free %            100                                99     100
cM capacity (veh/h)        785                               179     355                                            cM capacity (veh/h)        785                               179     355
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                    Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               436  868            5                                                                    Volume Total               436  868            2
Volume Left                   0    0           0                                                                    Volume Left                   0    0           1
Volume Right                  0    1           5                                                                    Volume Right                  0    1           1
cSH                        785 1700          355                                                                    cSH                        785 1700          238
Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.51         0.01                                                                    Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.51         0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           1                                                                    Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           1
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        15.3                                                                    Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        20.3
Lane LOS                                       C                                                                    Lane LOS                                       C
Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    15.3                                                                    Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    20.3
Approach LOS                                   C                                                                    Approach LOS                                   C
Intersection Summary                                                                                                Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.1                                                                   Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          53.0%          ICU Level of Service            A                         Intersection Capacity Utilization          53.0%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                   Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report    DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 9     7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 10
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study       HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
11: OR 126(W) & Driveway 10                                                                2011 30th Highest Hour   12: OR 126(W) & Driveway 11                                                                2011 30th Highest Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                             Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                 Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                    Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                     Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)               10      400     805       1       0      10                                            Volume (veh/h)                5      395     795      10       5      10
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94                                            Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)       11      426     856       1       0      11                                            Hourly flow rate (vph)        5      420     846      11       5      11
Pedestrians                                                    2                                                    Pedestrians                                                    2
Lane Width (ft)                                             12.0                                                    Lane Width (ft)                                             12.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                         4.0                                                    Walking Speed (ft/s)                                         4.0
Percent Blockage                                               0                                                    Percent Blockage                                               0
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                              Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                    Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                 Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                               pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     859                              1306     859                                            vC, conflicting volume     858                              1284     853
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                               vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                               vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         859                              1306     859                                            vCu, unblocked vol         858                              1284     853
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                           tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                     tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                           tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %             99                               100      97                                            p0 queue free %             99                                97      97
cM capacity (veh/h)        789                               176     358                                            cM capacity (veh/h)        790                               182     361
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                    Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               436  857           11                                                                    Volume Total               426  856           16
Volume Left                 11     0           0                                                                    Volume Left                   5    0           5
Volume Right                  0    1          11                                                                    Volume Right                  0  11           11
cSH                        789 1700          358                                                                    cSH                        790 1700          272
Volume to Capacity        0.01 0.50         0.03                                                                    Volume to Capacity        0.01 0.50         0.06
Queue Length 95th (ft)        1    0           2                                                                    Queue Length 95th (ft)        1    0           5
Control Delay (s)           0.4  0.0        15.3                                                                    Control Delay (s)           0.2  0.0        19.1
Lane LOS                      A                C                                                                    Lane LOS                      A                C
Approach Delay (s)          0.4  0.0        15.3                                                                    Approach Delay (s)          0.2  0.0        19.1
Approach LOS                                   C                                                                    Approach LOS                                   C
Intersection Summary                                                                                                Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.3                                                                   Average Delay                                 0.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization          52.4%          ICU Level of Service            A                         Intersection Capacity Utilization          52.5%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                   Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report    DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 11     7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 12
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study       HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
13: OR 126(W) & Driveway 12                                                                2011 30th Highest Hour   14: OR 126(W) & Driveway 13                                                                2011 30th Highest Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                             Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                 Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                    Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                     Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)               15      385     790      10       5      15                                            Volume (veh/h)                1      390     800       0       1       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94                                            Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)       16      410     840      11       5      16                                            Hourly flow rate (vph)        1      415     851       0       1       0
Pedestrians                                                                                                         Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                     Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                    Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                              Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                    Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                 Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                               pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     851                              1287     846                                            vC, conflicting volume     851                              1268     851
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                               vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                               vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         851                              1287     846                                            vCu, unblocked vol         851                              1268     851
tC, single (s)              4.2                               6.4     6.2                                           tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                     tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.3                               3.5     3.3                                           tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %             98                                97      96                                            p0 queue free %            100                                99     100
cM capacity (veh/h)        762                               179     365                                            cM capacity (veh/h)        796                               188     363
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                    Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               426  851           21                                                                    Volume Total               416  851            1
Volume Left                 16     0           5                                                                    Volume Left                   1    0           1
Volume Right                  0  11           16                                                                    Volume Right                  0    0           0
cSH                        762 1700          290                                                                    cSH                        796 1700          188
Volume to Capacity        0.02 0.50         0.07                                                                    Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.50         0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)        2    0           6                                                                    Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           0
Control Delay (s)           0.6  0.0        18.4                                                                    Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        24.3
Lane LOS                      A                C                                                                    Lane LOS                      A                C
Approach Delay (s)          0.6  0.0        18.4                                                                    Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.0        24.3
Approach LOS                                   C                                                                    Approach LOS                                   C
Intersection Summary                                                                                                Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.5                                                                   Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          52.2%          ICU Level of Service            A                         Intersection Capacity Utilization          52.1%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                   Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report    DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 13     7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 14
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                              OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study       HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
15: OR 126(W) & Ellmaker Rd                                                                 2011 30th Highest Hour   16: OR 126(W) & Shady Rest Dr                                                              2011 30th Highest Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                             Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                  Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free     Free            Stop                                                    Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%       0%              0%                                                     Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)               20      370      790    125       35      10                                            Volume (veh/h)                0      400     895       0       0       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95    0.95    0.95                                            Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)       21      389      832    132       37      11                                            Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      426     952       0       0       0
Pedestrians                             1                                                                            Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                     12.0                                                                             Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                  4.0                                                                            Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                        0                                                                            Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                               Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                  None                                                    Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                  Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                 Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     832                               1263     833                                            vC, conflicting volume     952                              1378     952
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         832                               1263     833                                            vCu, unblocked vol         952                              1378     952
tC, single (s)              4.1                                6.4     6.2                                           tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                      tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                                3.5     3.3                                           tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %             97                                 80      97                                            p0 queue free %            100                               100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)        810                                184     371                                            cM capacity (veh/h)        730                               161     317
Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2 WB 1 WB 2           SB 1                                                    Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total                21       389  832  132             47                                                    Volume Total               426  952             0
Volume Left                 21          0    0    0            37                                                    Volume Left                   0    0            0
Volume Right                  0         0    0 132             11                                                    Volume Right                  0    0            0
cSH                        810      1700 1700 1700            207                                                    cSH                        730 1700         1700
Volume to Capacity        0.03       0.23 0.49 0.08          0.23                                                    Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.56          0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        2         0    0    0            21                                                    Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0
Control Delay (s)           9.6       0.0  0.0  0.0          27.4                                                    Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0          0.0
Lane LOS                      A                                 D                                                    Lane LOS                                        A
Approach Delay (s)          0.5                0.0           27.4                                                    Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0      0.0
Approach LOS                                                    D                                                    Approach LOS                                    A
Intersection Summary                                                                                                 Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                  1.1                                                                   Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           51.9%          ICU Level of Service            A                         Intersection Capacity Utilization          50.4%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                           15                                                                   Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report    DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 15     7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 16
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study             HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                              OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
17: OR 126(W) & Lake Side Dr                                                                  2011 30th Highest Hour      18: OR 126(W) & Central Rd                                                                     2011 30th Highest Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL      WBT    WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR    Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT    WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                       Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free                     Free                   Stop                   Stop           Sign Control                        Free                      Free                   Stop                   Stop
Grade                                0%                       0%                     0%                     0%            Grade                                0%                        0%                     0%                     0%
Volume (veh/h)                0      400       0       1      890       5       0      0       1      0       0       0   Volume (veh/h)                2      385       10    155       875       2      20      0      70      2       0       2
Peak Hour Factor           0.97     0.97    0.92    0.92     0.97    0.97    0.92   0.92    0.92   0.97    0.92    0.97   Peak Hour Factor           0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      412       0       1      918       5       0      0       1      0       0       0   Hourly flow rate (vph)        2      418       11    168       951       2      22      0      76      2       0       2
Pedestrians                                                                                                               Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                           Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                      Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                          Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                    Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                                         None                   None           Median type                                                                          None                   None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                       Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                      Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                     pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     923                       412                    1335    1337    412    1336    1335    920    vC, conflicting volume     951                        418                    1713    1711    418    1787    1711    951
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                     vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                     vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         923                       412                    1335    1337    412    1336    1335    920    vCu, unblocked vol         951                        418                    1713    1711    418    1787    1711    951
tC, single (s)              4.1                       4.1                     7.1     6.5    6.2     7.1     6.5    6.2   tC, single (s)              4.1                        4.1                     7.1     6.5    6.2     7.1     6.5    6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                           tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                       2.2                     3.5     4.0    3.3     3.5     4.0    3.3   tF (s)                      2.2                        2.2                     3.5     4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0    3.3
p0 queue free %            100                       100                     100     100    100     100     100    100    p0 queue free %            100                         85                      66     100     88     96      100     99
cM capacity (veh/h)        749                      1147                     131     153    640     132     154    331    cM capacity (veh/h)        730                       1146                      63      78    639     50       78    318
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         NB 1    SB 1                                                                  Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2     EB 3 WB 1 WB 2 WB 3             NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total               412  924            1        0                                                                 Volume Total                  2      418        11 168  951     2              98       4
Volume Left                   0    1           0        0                                                                 Volume Left                   2         0        0 168     0    0              22       2
Volume Right                  0    5           1        0                                                                 Volume Right                  0         0       11    0    0    2              76       2
cSH                        749 1147          640    1700                                                                  cSH                        730      1700     1700 1146 1700 1700              212      86
Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.00         0.00     0.00                                                                 Volume to Capacity        0.00       0.25     0.01 0.15 0.56 0.00            0.46    0.05
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           0        0                                                                 Queue Length 95th (ft)        0         0        0   13    0    0              56       4
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        10.6      0.0                                                                 Control Delay (s)           9.9       0.0      0.0  8.7  0.0  0.0            35.9    49.0
Lane LOS                           A           B        A                                                                 Lane LOS                      A                       A                         E       E
Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.0        10.6      0.0                                                                 Approach Delay (s)          0.1                     1.3                      35.9    49.0
Approach LOS                                   B        A                                                                 Approach LOS                                                                    E       E
Intersection Summary                                                                                                      Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.0                                                                         Average Delay                                  3.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization          57.9%           ICU Level of Service               B                           Intersection Capacity Utilization           65.1%           ICU Level of Service               C
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                         Analysis Period (min)                           15




DKS Associates                                                                                       Synchro 6 Report     DKS Associates                                                                                        Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                    Page 17      7/19/2011                                                                                                     Page 18
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study       HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
19: OR 126(W) & Fisher Rd                                                                  2011 30th Highest Hour   20: OR 126(W) & Richmond St                                                                2011 30th Highest Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                             Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                 Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                    Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                     Grade                                0%       0%             0%
Volume (veh/h)               45      430     920       5       2    115                                             Volume (veh/h)                0      425     930       0       0       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.95     0.95    0.95    0.95    0.95    0.95                                            Peak Hour Factor           0.93     0.93     0.93   0.93    0.93    0.93
Hourly flow rate (vph)       47      453     968       5       2    121                                             Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      457    1000       0       0       0
Pedestrians                                                                                                         Pedestrians                                     1
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                     Lane Width (ft)                              12.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                Walking Speed (ft/s)                          4.0
Percent Blockage                                                                                                    Percent Blockage                                0
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                              Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                    Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                 Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                               pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     968                              1516     968                                            vC, conflicting volume    1000                              1458    1000
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                               vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                               vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         968                              1516     968                                            vCu, unblocked vol        1000                              1458    1000
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.9     6.2                                           tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                     tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               4.0     3.3                                           tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %             93                                98      61                                            p0 queue free %            100                               100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)        700                                95     309                                            cM capacity (veh/h)        700                               144     298
Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2 WB 1 WB 2          SB 1                                                    Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total                47       453  968     5          123                                                    Volume Total               457 1000             0
Volume Left                 47          0    0    0            2                                                    Volume Left                   0    0            0
Volume Right                  0         0    0    5          121                                                    Volume Right                  0    0            0
cSH                        700      1700 1700 1700           298                                                    cSH                        700 1700         1700
Volume to Capacity        0.07       0.27 0.57 0.00         0.41                                                    Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.59          0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        5         0    0    0           49                                                    Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0
Control Delay (s)         10.5        0.0  0.0  0.0         25.4                                                    Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0          0.0
Lane LOS                      B                                D                                                    Lane LOS                                        A
Approach Delay (s)          1.0               0.0           25.4                                                    Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0      0.0
Approach LOS                                                   D                                                    Approach LOS                                    A
Intersection Summary                                                                                                Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 2.3                                                                   Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          62.3%          ICU Level of Service            B                         Intersection Capacity Utilization          52.3%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                   Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report    DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 19     7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 20
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study       HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                        OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
21: OR 126(W) & Ken Neilsen Rd                                                            2011 30th Highest Hour   22: OR 126(W) & Green Hill Rd                                                       2011 30th Highest Hour



Movement                   EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     NBL     NBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT    EBR     WBL   WBT   WBR    NBL   NBT   NBR    SBL   SBT   SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control              Free                      Free    Stop                                                   Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Grade                      0%                         0%     0%                                                    Total Lost time (s)         4.0   4.0       4.0   4.0            4.0   4.0       4.0   4.0
Volume (veh/h)             435         0       5     920       0       2                                           Lane Util. Factor          1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00            1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00
Peak Hour Factor          0.90      0.90    0.90     0.90   0.90    0.90                                           Frt                        1.00 1.00       1.00 0.99            1.00 0.85       1.00 0.85
Hourly flow rate (vph)     483         0       6    1022       0       2                                           Flt Protected              0.95 1.00       0.95 1.00            0.99 1.00       0.98 1.00
Pedestrians                                                                                                        Satd. Flow (prot)         1805 1821       1770 1841            1885 1583       1835 1615
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                    Flt Permitted              0.95 1.00       0.95 1.00            0.95 1.00       0.83 1.00
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                               Satd. Flow (perm)         1805 1821       1770 1841            1811 1583       1553 1615
Percent Blockage                                                                                                   Volume (vph)                 25  410    5  125   905   70    5    25   55   55    55   40
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
Median type                                                 None                                                   Growth Factor (vph)      100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Adj. Flow (vph)              27  441    5  134   973   75    5    27   59   59    59   43
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               RTOR Reduction (vph)          0     0   0     0     2   0    0     0   52    0     0   38
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              Lane Group Flow (vph)        27  446    0  134 1046     0    0    32     7   0  118      5
vC, conflicting volume                       483            1517    483                                            Heavy Vehicles (%)          0%    4% 20%    2%    2%  3%   0%    0%   2%   0%    2%   0%
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              Turn Type                  Prot            Prot           Perm       Perm Perm       Perm
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              Protected Phases              5     2         1     6              8               4
vCu, unblocked vol                           483            1517    483                                            Permitted Phases                                             8           8   4           4
tC, single (s)                                4.1             6.4    6.2                                           Actuated Green, G (s)       1.9 47.5       10.2 55.8            10.4 10.4       10.4 10.4
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    Effective Green, g (s)      1.9 49.5       10.2 57.8            10.4 10.4       10.4 10.4
tF (s)                                        2.2             3.5    3.3                                           Actuated g/C Ratio         0.02 0.60       0.12 0.70            0.13 0.13       0.13 0.13
p0 queue free %                               99             100    100                                            Clearance Time (s)          4.0   6.0       4.0   6.0            4.0   4.0       4.0   4.0
cM capacity (veh/h)                         1090             132    587                                            Vehicle Extension (s)       3.0   3.0       3.0   3.0            3.0   3.0       3.0   3.0
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         NB 1                                                                   Lane Grp Cap (vph)           42 1098       220 1296             229   201       197   205
Volume Total               483 1028            2                                                                   v/s Ratio Prot             0.01 0.24      c0.08 c0.57
Volume Left                   0    6           0                                                                   v/s Ratio Perm                                                  0.02 0.00      c0.08 0.00
Volume Right                  0    0           2                                                                   v/c Ratio                  0.64 0.41       0.61 0.81            0.14 0.04       0.60 0.03
cSH                       1700 1090          587                                                                   Uniform Delay, d1          39.8   8.6      34.1   8.3           31.9 31.5       33.9 31.4
Volume to Capacity         0.28 0.01        0.00                                                                   Progression Factor         1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00            1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           0                                                                   Incremental Delay, d2      29.0   0.2       4.7   3.8            0.3   0.1       4.8   0.1
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.2        11.2                                                                   Delay (s)                  68.8   8.8      38.8 12.1            32.2 31.5       38.7 31.5
Lane LOS                           A           B                                                                   Level of Service              E     A         D     B              C    C          D    C
Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.2        11.2                                                                   Approach Delay (s)               12.2            15.1           31.8            36.8
Approach LOS                                   B                                                                   Approach LOS                        B               B              C               D

Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.1                                                                  HCM Average Control Delay                   17.0     HCM Level of Service           B
Intersection Capacity Utilization          62.4%        ICU Level of Service             B                         HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                0.78
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Actuated Cycle Length (s)                   82.1     Sum of lost time (s)         12.0
                                                                                                                   Intersection Capacity Utilization         77.8%      ICU Level of Service           D
                                                                                                                   Analysis Period (min)                         15
                                                                                                                   c Critical Lane Group




DKS Associates                                                                                 Synchro 6 Report    DKS Associates                                                                            Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                              Page 21     7/19/2011                                                                                         Page 22
      HCM Intersection Analysis ­ Average
     Annual Weekday A.M./P.M. Peak Hours




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan    P09042019 
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study             HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
1: OR 126(W) & Huston Rd                                                2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour          2: OR 126(W) & Driveway 1                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR    Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                       Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free                     Free                   Stop                   Stop           Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%                       0%                     0%                     0%            Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                5      495       10      20     200      10      25     10    150      25       5      10   Volume (veh/h)                0      670     230       0       1       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.81     0.81     0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81   0.81    0.81   0.81    0.81    0.81   Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80
Hourly flow rate (vph)        6      611       12      25     247      12      31     12    185      31       6      12   Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      838     288       0       1       0
Pedestrians                                                                                                               Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                           Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                      Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                          Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                    Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                                         None                   None           Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                       Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                      Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                     pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     247                       611                     935     920    611    1111     920    247    vC, conflicting volume     288                              1125     288
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                     vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                     vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         247                       611                     935     920    611    1111     920    247    vCu, unblocked vol         288                              1125     288
tC, single (s)              4.3                       4.2                     7.1     6.7    6.2     7.2     6.5    6.3   tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                           tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.4                       2.3                     3.5     4.2    3.3     3.6     4.0    3.4   tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %             99                        97                      87      95     62      71      98     98    p0 queue free %            100                                99     100
cM capacity (veh/h)       1196                       926                     230     248    492     106     264    768    cM capacity (veh/h)       1286                               229     756
Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2     EB 3 WB 1 WB 2 WB 3            NB 1    SB 1                                  Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total                  6      611        12   25 247    12            228      49                                  Volume Total               838  288            1
Volume Left                   6         0        0   25    0    0             31      31                                  Volume Left                   0    0           1
Volume Right                  0         0       12    0    0   12            185      12                                  Volume Right                  0    0           0
cSH                       1196      1700     1700  926 1700 1700             407     150                                  cSH                       1286 1700          229
Volume to Capacity         0.01      0.36     0.01 0.03 0.15 0.01           0.56    0.33                                  Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.17        0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0         0        0    2    0    0             83      33                                  Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           0
Control Delay (s)           8.0       0.0      0.0  9.0  0.0  0.0           24.5    40.5                                  Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        20.8
Lane LOS                      A                       A                        C       E                                  Lane LOS                                       C
Approach Delay (s)          0.1                     0.8                     24.5    40.5                                  Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    20.8
Approach LOS                                                                   C       E                                  Approach LOS                                   C
Intersection Summary                                                                                                      Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                  6.6                                                                        Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           43.7%          ICU Level of Service               A                           Intersection Capacity Utilization          45.3%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                           15                                                                        Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                       Synchro 6 Report     DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                     Page 1      7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 2
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
3: OR 126(W) & Driveway 2                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour    4: OR 126(W) & Driveway 3                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                0      670     230       0       0       0                                           Volume (veh/h)                5      665     230       1       0       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80
Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      838     288       0       0       0                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        6      831     288       1       0       0
Pedestrians                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     288                              1125     288                                           vC, conflicting volume     289                              1132     288
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         288                              1125     288                                           vCu, unblocked vol         289                              1132     288
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                               100     100                                           p0 queue free %            100                               100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)       1286                               229     756                                           cM capacity (veh/h)       1285                               226     756
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               838  288             0                                                                  Volume Total               838  289             0
Volume Left                   0    0            0                                                                  Volume Left                   6    0            0
Volume Right                  0    0            0                                                                  Volume Right                  0    1            0
cSH                       1286 1700         1700                                                                   cSH                       1285 1700         1700
Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.17         0.00                                                                  Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.17         0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0                                                                  Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0          0.0                                                                  Control Delay (s)           0.1  0.0          0.0
Lane LOS                                        A                                                                  Lane LOS                      A                 A
Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0      0.0                                                                  Approach Delay (s)          0.1  0.0          0.0
Approach LOS                                    A                                                                  Approach LOS                                    A
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.0                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization          38.6%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          42.3%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 3    7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 4
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
5: OR 126(W) & Driveway 4                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour    6: OR 126(W) & Driveway 5                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                1      665     230       0       0       0                                           Volume (veh/h)                2      665     230       0       0       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80
Hourly flow rate (vph)        1      831     288       0       0       0                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        2      831     288       0       0       0
Pedestrians                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     288                              1121     288                                           vC, conflicting volume     288                              1124     288
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         288                              1121     288                                           vCu, unblocked vol         288                              1124     288
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                               100     100                                           p0 queue free %            100                               100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)       1286                               230     756                                           cM capacity (veh/h)       1286                               229     756
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               832  288             0                                                                  Volume Total               834  288             0
Volume Left                   1    0            0                                                                  Volume Left                   2    0            0
Volume Right                  0    0            0                                                                  Volume Right                  0    0            0
cSH                       1286 1700         1700                                                                   cSH                       1286 1700         1700
Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.17         0.00                                                                  Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.17         0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0                                                                  Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0          0.0                                                                  Control Delay (s)           0.1  0.0          0.0
Lane LOS                      A                 A                                                                  Lane LOS                      A                 A
Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.0          0.0                                                                  Approach Delay (s)          0.1  0.0          0.0
Approach LOS                                    A                                                                  Approach LOS                                    A
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.0                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          39.1%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          39.9%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 5    7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 6
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
7: OR 126(W) & Driveway 6                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour    8: OR 126(W) & Driveway 7                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                0      665     230       1       0       0                                           Volume (veh/h)                0      665     230       0       0       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80
Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      831     288       1       0       0                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      831     288       0       0       0
Pedestrians                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     289                              1119     288                                           vC, conflicting volume     288                              1119     288
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         289                              1119     288                                           vCu, unblocked vol         288                              1119     288
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                               100     100                                           p0 queue free %            100                               100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)       1285                               231     756                                           cM capacity (veh/h)       1286                               231     756
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               831  289             0                                                                  Volume Total               831  288             0
Volume Left                   0    0            0                                                                  Volume Left                   0    0            0
Volume Right                  0    1            0                                                                  Volume Right                  0    0            0
cSH                       1285 1700         1700                                                                   cSH                       1286 1700         1700
Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.17         0.00                                                                  Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.17         0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0                                                                  Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0          0.0                                                                  Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0          0.0
Lane LOS                                        A                                                                  Lane LOS                                        A
Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0      0.0                                                                  Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0      0.0
Approach LOS                                    A                                                                  Approach LOS                                    A
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.0                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          38.3%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          38.3%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 7    7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 8
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
9: OR 126(W) & Driveway 8                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour    10: OR 126(W) & Driveway 9                                             2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                5      660     230       1       2       0                                           Volume (veh/h)                1      660     230       0       0       1
Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80
Hourly flow rate (vph)        6      825     288       1       2       0                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        1      825     288       0       0       1
Pedestrians                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     289                              1126     288                                           vC, conflicting volume     288                              1115     288
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         289                              1126     288                                           vCu, unblocked vol         288                              1115     288
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                                99     100                                           p0 queue free %            100                               100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)       1285                               228     756                                           cM capacity (veh/h)       1286                               232     756
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               831  289            2                                                                   Volume Total               826  288             1
Volume Left                   6    0           2                                                                   Volume Left                   1    0            0
Volume Right                  0    1           0                                                                   Volume Right                  0    0            1
cSH                       1285 1700          228                                                                   cSH                       1286 1700          756
Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.17        0.01                                                                   Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.17        0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           1                                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0
Control Delay (s)           0.1  0.0        21.0                                                                   Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0          9.8
Lane LOS                      A                C                                                                   Lane LOS                      A                 A
Approach Delay (s)          0.1  0.0        21.0                                                                   Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.0          9.8
Approach LOS                                   C                                                                   Approach LOS                                    A
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.1                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          48.7%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          45.5%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 9    7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 10
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
11: OR 126(W) & Driveway 10                                            2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour    12: OR 126(W) & Driveway 11                                            2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                2      660     230       0       0       1                                           Volume (veh/h)                5      655     220      10       5      10
Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80
Hourly flow rate (vph)        2      825     288       0       0       1                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        6      819     275      12       6      12
Pedestrians                                                    1                                                   Pedestrians                                                    1
Lane Width (ft)                                             12.0                                                   Lane Width (ft)                                             12.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                         4.0                                                   Walking Speed (ft/s)                                         4.0
Percent Blockage                                               0                                                   Percent Blockage                                               0
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     288                              1118     288                                           vC, conflicting volume     288                              1114     282
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         288                              1118     288                                           vCu, unblocked vol         288                              1114     282
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                               100     100                                           p0 queue free %            100                                97      98
cM capacity (veh/h)       1284                               230     755                                           cM capacity (veh/h)       1284                               231     761
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               828  288             1                                                                  Volume Total               825  288           19
Volume Left                   2    0            0                                                                  Volume Left                   6    0           6
Volume Right                  0    0            1                                                                  Volume Right                  0   12          12
cSH                       1284 1700          755                                                                   cSH                       1284 1700          431
Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.17        0.00                                                                   Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.17        0.04
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0                                                                  Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           3
Control Delay (s)           0.1  0.0          9.8                                                                  Control Delay (s)           0.1  0.0        13.7
Lane LOS                      A                 A                                                                  Lane LOS                      A                B
Approach Delay (s)          0.1  0.0          9.8                                                                  Approach Delay (s)          0.1  0.0        13.7
Approach LOS                                    A                                                                  Approach LOS                                   B
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.1                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization          46.3%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          48.5%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 11    7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 12
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
13: OR 126(W) & Driveway 12                                            2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour    14: OR 126(W) & Driveway 13                                            2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                5      655     215       5      10      15                                           Volume (veh/h)                1      665     220       0       2       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80
Hourly flow rate (vph)        6      819     269       6      12      19                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        1      831     275       0       2       0
Pedestrians                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     275                              1103     272                                           vC, conflicting volume     275                              1109     275
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         275                              1103     272                                           vCu, unblocked vol         275                              1109     275
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                                95      98                                           p0 queue free %            100                                99     100
cM capacity (veh/h)       1300                               235     772                                           cM capacity (veh/h)       1300                               234     769
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               825  275           31                                                                   Volume Total               832  275            2
Volume Left                   6    0          12                                                                   Volume Left                   1    0           2
Volume Right                  0    6          19                                                                   Volume Right                  0    0           0
cSH                       1300 1700          403                                                                   cSH                       1300 1700          234
Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.16        0.08                                                                   Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.16        0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           6                                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           1
Control Delay (s)           0.1  0.0        14.7                                                                   Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        20.6
Lane LOS                      A                B                                                                   Lane LOS                      A                C
Approach Delay (s)          0.1  0.0        14.7                                                                   Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.0        20.6
Approach LOS                                   B                                                                   Approach LOS                                   C
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.5                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization          48.5%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          45.8%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 13    7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 14
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
15: OR 126(W) & Ellmaker Rd                                            2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour    16: OR 126(W) & Shady Rest Dr                                          2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)               15      655     205      10      85      15                                           Volume (veh/h)                0      740     215       0       0       1
Peak Hour Factor           0.80     0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.78     0.78    0.78    0.78    0.78    0.78
Hourly flow rate (vph)       19      819     256      12     106      19                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      949     276       0       0       1
Pedestrians                                     3                                                                  Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                             12.0                                                                   Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                          4.0                                                                  Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                0                                                                  Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     256                              1116     256                                           vC, conflicting volume     276                              1224     276
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         256                              1116     256                                           vCu, unblocked vol         276                              1224     276
tC, single (s)              4.2                               6.4     6.3                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.3                               3.5     3.4                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %             99                                53      98                                           p0 queue free %            100                               100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)       1280                               227     754                                           cM capacity (veh/h)       1299                               200     768
Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2 WB 1 WB 2          SB 1                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total                 19      819  256    12          125                                                   Volume Total               949  276             1
Volume Left                  19         0    0    0          106                                                   Volume Left                   0    0            0
Volume Right                  0         0    0   12           19                                                   Volume Right                  0    0            1
cSH                       1280      1700 1700 1700           254                                                   cSH                       1299 1700          768
Volume to Capacity         0.01      0.48 0.15 0.01         0.49                                                   Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.16        0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        1         0    0    0           63                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0
Control Delay (s)           7.9       0.0  0.0  0.0         32.3                                                   Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0          9.7
Lane LOS                      A                                D                                                   Lane LOS                                        A
Approach Delay (s)          0.2               0.0           32.3                                                   Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0      9.7
Approach LOS                                                   D                                                   Approach LOS                                    A
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 3.4                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          46.8%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          48.9%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 15    7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 16
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study             HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
17: OR 126(W) & Lake Side Dr                                           2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour          18: OR 126(W) & Central Rd                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR    Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                      Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free                    Free                   Stop                   Stop           Sign Control                        Free                     Free                   Stop                   Stop
Grade                                0%                      0%                     0%                     0%            Grade                                0%                       0%                     0%                     0%
Volume (veh/h)                2      745       0       0     210       0       0      0       0      5       0       5   Volume (veh/h)                0      740       10      25     215       0       5      0    125       0       0       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.83     0.83    0.83    0.83    0.83    0.83    0.83   0.83    0.83   0.83    0.83    0.83   Peak Hour Factor           0.81     0.81     0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81   0.81    0.81   0.81    0.81    0.81
Hourly flow rate (vph)        2      898       0       0     253       0       0      0       0      6       0       6   Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      914       12      31     265       0       6      0    154       0       0       0
Pedestrians                                                                                                              Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                          Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                     Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                         Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                   Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                                        None                   None           Median type                                                                         None                   None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                      Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                     Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                    pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     253                      898                    1161    1155    898    1155    1155    253    vC, conflicting volume     265                       914                    1241    1241    914    1395    1241    265
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                    vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                    vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         253                      898                    1161    1155    898    1155    1155    253    vCu, unblocked vol         265                       914                    1241    1241    914    1395    1241    265
tC, single (s)              4.1                      4.1                     7.1     6.5    6.2     7.1     6.5    6.2   tC, single (s)              4.1                       4.1                     7.1     6.5    6.2     7.1     6.5    6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                          tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                      2.2                     3.5     4.0    3.3     3.5     4.0    3.3   tF (s)                      2.2                       2.2                     3.5     4.0    3.3     3.5     4.0    3.3
p0 queue free %            100                      100                     100     100    100      97     100     99    p0 queue free %            100                        96                      96     100     53     100     100    100
cM capacity (veh/h)       1324                      765                     172     198    341     175     198    791    cM capacity (veh/h)       1310                       738                     148     169    331      62     169    778
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         NB 1    SB 1                                                                 Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2     EB 3 WB 1 WB 2 WB 3            NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total               900  253             0     12                                                                 Volume Total                  0      914        12   31 265     0            160        0
Volume Left                   2    0            0      6                                                                 Volume Left                   0         0        0   31    0    0              6        0
Volume Right                  0    0            0      6                                                                 Volume Right                  0         0       12    0    0    0            154        0
cSH                       1324  765         1700     287                                                                 cSH                       1700      1700     1700  738 1700 1700             316    1700
Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.00         0.00   0.04                                                                 Volume to Capacity         0.00      0.54     0.01 0.04 0.16 0.00           0.51     0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0      3                                                                 Queue Length 95th (ft)        0         0        0    3    0    0             68        0
Control Delay (s)           0.1  0.0          0.0   18.1                                                                 Control Delay (s)           0.0       0.0      0.0 10.1  0.0  0.0           27.6      0.0
Lane LOS                      A                 A      C                                                                 Lane LOS                                              B                        D        A
Approach Delay (s)          0.1  0.0          0.0   18.1                                                                 Approach Delay (s)          0.0                     1.1                     27.6      0.0
Approach LOS                                    A      C                                                                 Approach LOS                                                                   D        A
Intersection Summary                                                                                                     Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.2                                                                        Average Delay                                  3.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization          50.8%          ICU Level of Service               A                           Intersection Capacity Utilization           53.6%          ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                        Analysis Period (min)                           15




DKS Associates                                                                                      Synchro 6 Report     DKS Associates                                                                                       Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                   Page 17      7/19/2011                                                                                                    Page 18
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                              OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
19: OR 126(W) & Fisher Rd                                               2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour    20: OR 126(W) & Richmond St                                            2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                 Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free     Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                 0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)               60      815      195       0       2      40                                           Volume (veh/h)                0      815     195       1       5       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.81      0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.83     0.83    0.83    0.83    0.83    0.83
Hourly flow rate (vph)       74     1006      241       0       2      49                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      982     235       1       6       0
Pedestrians                                                                                                         Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                     Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                    Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                              Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                  None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                 Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                               pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     241                               1395     241                                           vC, conflicting volume     236                              1217     236
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                               vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                               vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         241                               1395     241                                           vCu, unblocked vol         236                              1217     236
tC, single (s)              4.1                                6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.6     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                     tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                                3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.7     3.3
p0 queue free %             94                                 98      94                                           p0 queue free %            100                                97     100
cM capacity (veh/h)       1320                                149     803                                           cM capacity (veh/h)       1343                               179     808
Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2 WB 1 WB 2           SB 1                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total                 74     1006  241     0            52                                                   Volume Total               982  236            6
Volume Left                  74         0    0    0             2                                                   Volume Left                   0    0           6
Volume Right                  0         0    0    0            49                                                   Volume Right                  0    1           0
cSH                       1320      1700 1700 1700            664                                                   cSH                       1343 1700          179
Volume to Capacity         0.06      0.59 0.14 0.00          0.08                                                   Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.14        0.03
Queue Length 95th (ft)        4         0    0    0             6                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           3
Control Delay (s)           7.9       0.0  0.0  0.0          10.9                                                   Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        25.8
Lane LOS                      A                                 B                                                   Lane LOS                                       D
Approach Delay (s)          0.5                0.0           10.9                                                   Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    25.8
Approach LOS                                                    B                                                   Approach LOS                                   D
Intersection Summary                                                                                                Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                  0.8                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization           52.9%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          52.9%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                           15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 19    7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 20
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                        OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
21: OR 126(W) & Ken Neilsen Rd                                       2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour    22: OR 126(W) & Green Hill Rd                                     2011 Average Annual Weekday AM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    NBL     NBR                                           Movement                   EBL      EBT    EBR     WBL   WBT   WBR    NBL   NBT   NBR    SBL    SBT   SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                              Lane Configurations
Sign Control              Free                      Free   Stop                                                  Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Grade                      0%                        0%     0%                                                   Total Lost time (s)         4.0   4.0       4.0   4.0           4.0   4.0       4.0   4.0
Volume (veh/h)             815         1       0     190      0       5                                          Lane Util. Factor          1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00           1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00
Peak Hour Factor          0.86      0.86    0.86    0.86   0.86    0.86                                          Frpb, ped/bikes            1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00           1.00 0.98       1.00 1.00
Hourly flow rate (vph)     948         1       0     221      0       6                                          Flpb, ped/bikes            1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00           1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00
Pedestrians                                                                                                      Frt                        1.00 1.00       1.00 0.98           1.00 0.85       1.00 0.85
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                  Flt Protected              0.95 1.00       0.95 1.00           0.99 1.00       0.96 1.00
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                             Satd. Flow (prot)         1805 1862       1456 1649           1794 1520       1702 1615
Percent Blockage                                                                                                 Flt Permitted              0.95 1.00       0.95 1.00           0.96 1.00       0.75 1.00
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                           Satd. Flow (perm)         1805 1862       1456 1649           1733 1520       1324 1615
Median type                                                None                                                  Volume (vph)                 25  800    2    25  185  30    5    35  125   60    20     5
Median storage veh)                                                                                              Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                             Growth Factor (vph)      100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                            Adj. Flow (vph)              29  920    2    29  213  34    6    40  144   69    23     6
vC, conflicting volume                       949           1169    948                                           RTOR Reduction (vph)          0     0   0     0     4  0    0     0  125    0     0     5
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                            Lane Group Flow (vph)        29  922    0    29  243   0    0    46   19    0    92     1
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                            Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                                                     1   1
vCu, unblocked vol                           949           1169    948                                           Heavy Vehicles (%)          0%    2%  0% 24% 13% 12% 20%        3%   4%   2% 24%     0%
tC, single (s)                                4.1            6.4    6.2                                          Turn Type                  Prot            Prot          Perm       Perm Perm       Perm
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                  Protected Phases              5     2         1     6             8               4
tF (s)                                        2.2            3.5    3.3                                          Permitted Phases                                            8           8   4           4
p0 queue free %                              100            100     98                                           Actuated Green, G (s)       1.8 44.3        3.3 45.8            9.2   9.2       9.2   9.2
cM capacity (veh/h)                          732            215    319                                           Effective Green, g (s)      1.8 46.3        3.3 47.8            9.2   9.2       9.2   9.2
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         NB 1                                                                 Actuated g/C Ratio         0.03 0.65       0.05 0.68           0.13 0.13       0.13 0.13
Volume Total               949  221            6                                                                 Clearance Time (s)          4.0   6.0       4.0   6.0           4.0   4.0       4.0   4.0
Volume Left                   0    0           0                                                                 Vehicle Extension (s)       3.0   3.0       3.0   3.0           3.0   3.0       3.0   3.0
Volume Right                  1    0           6                                                                 Lane Grp Cap (vph)           46 1218         68 1113           225   198       172   210
cSH                       1700  732          319                                                                 v/s Ratio Prot             0.02 c0.50     c0.02 0.15
Volume to Capacity         0.56 0.00        0.02                                                                 v/s Ratio Perm                                                 0.03 0.01      c0.07 0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           1                                                                 v/c Ratio                  0.63 0.76       0.43 0.22           0.20 0.09       0.53 0.00
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        16.5                                                                 Uniform Delay, d1          34.2   8.4      32.8   4.4          27.5 27.1       28.8 26.8
Lane LOS                                       C                                                                 Progression Factor         1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00           1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00
Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    16.5                                                                 Incremental Delay, d2      24.9   2.7       4.3   0.1           0.5   0.2       3.2   0.0
Approach LOS                                   C                                                                 Delay (s)                  59.0 11.1       37.1   4.5          28.0 27.3       32.0 26.8
                                                                                                                 Level of Service              E     B         D     A             C    C          C    C
Intersection Summary                                                                                             Approach Delay (s)               12.6             7.9          27.5            31.7
Average Delay                                 0.1                                                                Approach LOS                        B               A             C               C
Intersection Capacity Utilization          53.0%       ICU Level of Service             A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                 HCM Average Control Delay                   14.8     HCM Level of Service            B
                                                                                                                 HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                0.70
                                                                                                                 Actuated Cycle Length (s)                   70.8     Sum of lost time (s)         12.0
                                                                                                                 Intersection Capacity Utilization         64.9%      ICU Level of Service           C
                                                                                                                 Analysis Period (min)                         15
                                                                                                                 c Critical Lane Group




DKS Associates                                                                                Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                             Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                             Page 21    7/19/2011                                                                                          Page 22
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                              OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study             HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                              OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
1: OR 126(W) & Huston Rd                                                 2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour          2: OR 126(W) & Driveway 1                                               2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT    WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR    Movement                   EBL      EBT      WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                        Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free                      Free                   Stop                   Stop           Sign Control                        Free     Free            Stop
Grade                                0%                        0%                     0%                     0%            Grade                                0%       0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)               10      295       20    125       560      15      15      5      40      5       5      15   Volume (veh/h)                1      340      705       1       1       1
Peak Hour Factor           0.93     0.93     0.93    0.93     0.93    0.93    0.93   0.93    0.93   0.93    0.93    0.93   Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)       11      317       22    134       602      16      16      5      43      5       5      16   Hourly flow rate (vph)        1      362      750       1       1       1
Pedestrians                             2                                               3                      1           Pedestrians                             2                       4
Lane Width (ft)                     12.0                                             12.0                   12.0           Lane Width (ft)                     12.0                     12.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)                  4.0                                             4.0                    4.0           Walking Speed (ft/s)                  4.0                     4.0
Percent Blockage                        0                                               0                      0           Percent Blockage                        0                       0
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                     Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                                          None                   None           Median type                                                  None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                        Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                       Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                      pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     603                        320                    1233    1214    320    1256    1214    605    vC, conflicting volume     755                               1118     757
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                      vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                      vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         603                        320                    1233    1214    320    1256    1214    605    vCu, unblocked vol         755                               1118     757
tC, single (s)              4.1                        4.1                     7.1     6.5    6.2     7.2     6.5    6.3   tC, single (s)              4.1                                6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                            tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                        2.2                     3.5     4.0    3.3     3.6     4.0    3.4   tF (s)                      2.2                                3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %             99                         89                      88      97     94      95      97     97    p0 queue free %            100                                100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)        984                       1237                     132     161    712     116     161    478    cM capacity (veh/h)        862                                230     409
Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2     EB 3 WB 1 WB 2 WB 3             NB 1    SB 1                                  Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1          SB 1
Volume Total                11       317        22 134  602    16              65      27                                  Volume Total               363  751             2
Volume Left                 11          0        0 134     0    0              16       5                                  Volume Left                   1    0            1
Volume Right                  0         0       22    0    0   16              43      16                                  Volume Right                  0    1            1
cSH                        984      1700     1700 1237 1700 1700              299     237                                  cSH                        862 1700           294
Volume to Capacity        0.01       0.19     0.01 0.11 0.35 0.01            0.22    0.11                                  Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.44          0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)        1         0        0    9    0    0              20       9                                  Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            1
Control Delay (s)           8.7       0.0      0.0  8.3  0.0  0.0            20.3    22.1                                  Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0         17.3
Lane LOS                      A                       A                         C       C                                  Lane LOS                      A                 C
Approach Delay (s)          0.3                     1.5                      20.3    22.1                                  Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.0         17.3
Approach LOS                                                                    C       C                                  Approach LOS                                    C
Intersection Summary                                                                                                       Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                  2.6                                                                         Average Delay                                  0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           48.0%           ICU Level of Service               A                           Intersection Capacity Utilization           47.8%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                           15                                                                         Analysis Period (min)                           15




DKS Associates                                                                                        Synchro 6 Report     DKS Associates                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                      Page 1      7/19/2011                                                                                                 Page 2
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
3: OR 126(W) & Driveway 2                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour    4: OR 126(W) & Driveway 3                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                0      340     705       0       0       2                                           Volume (veh/h)                0      340     700       2       1       5
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      362     750       0       0       2                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      362     745       2       1       5
Pedestrians                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     750                              1112     750                                           vC, conflicting volume     747                              1107     746
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         750                              1112     750                                           vCu, unblocked vol         747                              1107     746
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                               100      99                                           p0 queue free %            100                               100      99
cM capacity (veh/h)        868                               233     415                                           cM capacity (veh/h)        871                               235     417
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               362  750            2                                                                   Volume Total               362  747            6
Volume Left                   0    0           0                                                                   Volume Left                   0    0           1
Volume Right                  0    0           2                                                                   Volume Right                  0    2           5
cSH                        868 1700          415                                                                   cSH                        871 1700          369
Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.44         0.01                                                                   Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.44         0.02
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           0                                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           1
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        13.7                                                                   Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        14.9
Lane LOS                                       B                                                                   Lane LOS                                       B
Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    13.7                                                                   Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    14.9
Approach LOS                                   B                                                                   Approach LOS                                   B
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.0                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization          47.1%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          47.0%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 3    7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 4
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
5: OR 126(W) & Driveway 4                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour    6: OR 126(W) & Driveway 5                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                0      340     700       0       0       1                                           Volume (veh/h)                0      340     695       0       0       5
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      362     745       0       0       1                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      362     739       0       0       5
Pedestrians                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     745                              1106     745                                           vC, conflicting volume     739                              1101     739
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         745                              1106     745                                           vCu, unblocked vol         739                              1101     739
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                               100     100                                           p0 queue free %            100                               100      99
cM capacity (veh/h)        872                               235     417                                           cM capacity (veh/h)        876                               237     420
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               362  745            1                                                                   Volume Total               362  739            5
Volume Left                   0    0           0                                                                   Volume Left                   0    0           0
Volume Right                  0    0           1                                                                   Volume Right                  0    0           5
cSH                        872 1700          417                                                                   cSH                        876 1700          420
Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.44         0.00                                                                   Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.43         0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           0                                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           1
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        13.6                                                                   Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        13.7
Lane LOS                                       B                                                                   Lane LOS                                       B
Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    13.6                                                                   Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    13.7
Approach LOS                                   B                                                                   Approach LOS                                   B
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.0                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization          46.8%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          46.6%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 5    7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 6
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
7: OR 126(W) & Driveway 6                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour    8: OR 126(W) & Driveway 7                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                1      340     695       2       1       1                                           Volume (veh/h)                2      340     695       5       5       1
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)        1      362     739       2       1       1                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        2      362     739       5       5       1
Pedestrians                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     741                              1104     740                                           vC, conflicting volume     745                              1108     742
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         741                              1104     740                                           vCu, unblocked vol         745                              1108     742
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                               100     100                                           p0 queue free %            100                                98     100
cM capacity (veh/h)        875                               235     420                                           cM capacity (veh/h)        872                               234     419
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               363  741            2                                                                   Volume Total               364  745            6
Volume Left                   1    0           1                                                                   Volume Left                   2    0           5
Volume Right                  0    2           1                                                                   Volume Right                  0    5           1
cSH                        875 1700          302                                                                   cSH                        872 1700          252
Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.44         0.01                                                                   Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.44         0.03
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           1                                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           2
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        17.0                                                                   Control Delay (s)           0.1  0.0        19.6
Lane LOS                      A                C                                                                   Lane LOS                      A                C
Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.0        17.0                                                                   Approach Delay (s)          0.1  0.0        19.6
Approach LOS                                   C                                                                   Approach LOS                                   C
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.0                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization          46.7%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          46.9%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 7    7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 8
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
9: OR 126(W) & Driveway 8                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour    10: OR 126(W) & Driveway 9                                             2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                0      345     695       1       0       5                                           Volume (veh/h)                0      345     695       1       1       1
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      367     739       1       0       5                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      367     739       1       1       1
Pedestrians                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     740                              1107     740                                           vC, conflicting volume     740                              1107     740
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         740                              1107     740                                           vCu, unblocked vol         740                              1107     740
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %            100                               100      99                                           p0 queue free %            100                               100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)        875                               235     420                                           cM capacity (veh/h)        875                               235     420
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               367  740            5                                                                   Volume Total               367  740            2
Volume Left                   0    0           0                                                                   Volume Left                   0    0           1
Volume Right                  0    1           5                                                                   Volume Right                  0    1           1
cSH                        875 1700          420                                                                   cSH                        875 1700          301
Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.44         0.01                                                                   Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.44         0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           1                                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           1
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        13.7                                                                   Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        17.0
Lane LOS                                       B                                                                   Lane LOS                                       C
Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    13.7                                                                   Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0    17.0
Approach LOS                                   B                                                                   Approach LOS                                   C
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.1                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          46.6%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          46.6%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 9    7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 10
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
11: OR 126(W) & Driveway 10                                            2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour    12: OR 126(W) & Driveway 11                                            2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)                5      340     685       1       0      10                                           Volume (veh/h)                5      335     680      10       5       5
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)        5      362     729       1       0      11                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        5      356     723      11       5       5
Pedestrians                                                    2                                                   Pedestrians                                                    2
Lane Width (ft)                                             12.0                                                   Lane Width (ft)                                             12.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                         4.0                                                   Walking Speed (ft/s)                                         4.0
Percent Blockage                                               0                                                   Percent Blockage                                               0
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     732                              1104     731                                           vC, conflicting volume     736                              1098     731
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         732                              1104     731                                           vCu, unblocked vol         736                              1098     731
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %             99                               100      97                                           p0 queue free %             99                                98      99
cM capacity (veh/h)        880                               234     424                                           cM capacity (veh/h)        877                               236     425
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               367  730           11                                                                   Volume Total               362  734           11
Volume Left                   5    0           0                                                                   Volume Left                   5    0           5
Volume Right                  0    1          11                                                                   Volume Right                  0  11            5
cSH                        880 1700          424                                                                   cSH                        877 1700          303
Volume to Capacity        0.01 0.43         0.03                                                                   Volume to Capacity        0.01 0.43         0.04
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           2                                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           3
Control Delay (s)           0.2  0.0        13.7                                                                   Control Delay (s)           0.2  0.0        17.3
Lane LOS                      A                B                                                                   Lane LOS                      A                C
Approach Delay (s)          0.2  0.0        13.7                                                                   Approach Delay (s)          0.2  0.0        17.3
Approach LOS                                   B                                                                   Approach LOS                                   C
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.2                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization          46.1%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          46.4%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 11    7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 12
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
13: OR 126(W) & Driveway 12                                            2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour    14: OR 126(W) & Driveway 13                                            2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)               10      330     680       5       5      10                                           Volume (veh/h)                1      335     685       0       1       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)       11      351     723       5       5      11                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        1      356     729       0       1       0
Pedestrians                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     729                              1098     726                                           vC, conflicting volume     729                              1087     729
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         729                              1098     726                                           vCu, unblocked vol         729                              1087     729
tC, single (s)              4.2                               6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.3                               3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %             99                                98      98                                           p0 queue free %            100                               100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)        848                               235     428                                           cM capacity (veh/h)        884                               241     426
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total               362  729           16                                                                   Volume Total               357  729            1
Volume Left                 11     0           5                                                                   Volume Left                   1    0           1
Volume Right                  0    5          11                                                                   Volume Right                  0    0           0
cSH                        848 1700          336                                                                   cSH                        884 1700          241
Volume to Capacity        0.01 0.43         0.05                                                                   Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.43         0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        1    0           4                                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           0
Control Delay (s)           0.4  0.0        16.3                                                                   Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        20.0
Lane LOS                      A                C                                                                   Lane LOS                      A                C
Approach Delay (s)          0.4  0.0        16.3                                                                   Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.0        20.0
Approach LOS                                   C                                                                   Approach LOS                                   C
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.4                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          46.1%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          46.1%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 13    7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 14
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                              OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
15: OR 126(W) & Ellmaker Rd                                             2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour    16: OR 126(W) & Shady Rest Dr                                          2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT      WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                 Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free     Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%       0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)               15      315      675    105       30      10                                           Volume (veh/h)                0      345     765       0       0       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95    0.95    0.95                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)       16      332      711    111       32      11                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      367     814       0       0       0
Pedestrians                             1                                                                           Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                     12.0                                                                            Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                  4.0                                                                           Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                        0                                                                           Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                              Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                  None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                 Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                               pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     711                               1074     712                                           vC, conflicting volume     814                              1181     814
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                               vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                               vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         711                               1074     712                                           vCu, unblocked vol         814                              1181     814
tC, single (s)              4.1                                6.4     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                     tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                                3.5     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %             98                                 87      98                                           p0 queue free %            100                               100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)        898                                241     436                                           cM capacity (veh/h)        822                               212     381
Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2 WB 1 WB 2           SB 1                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total                16       332  711  111             42                                                   Volume Total               367  814             0
Volume Left                 16          0    0    0            32                                                   Volume Left                   0    0            0
Volume Right                  0         0    0 111             11                                                   Volume Right                  0    0            0
cSH                        898      1700 1700 1700            272                                                   cSH                        822 1700         1700
Volume to Capacity        0.02       0.20 0.42 0.07          0.15                                                   Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.48          0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        1         0    0    0            14                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0
Control Delay (s)           9.1       0.0  0.0  0.0          20.7                                                   Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0          0.0
Lane LOS                      A                                 C                                                   Lane LOS                                        A
Approach Delay (s)          0.4                0.0           20.7                                                   Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0      0.0
Approach LOS                                                    C                                                   Approach LOS                                    A
Intersection Summary                                                                                                Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                  0.8                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           45.9%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          43.6%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                           15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                   Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                Page 15    7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 16
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study             HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                              OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
17: OR 126(W) & Lake Side Dr                                            2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour          18: OR 126(W) & Central Rd                                               2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL      WBT    WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR    Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT    WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                       Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free                     Free                   Stop                   Stop           Sign Control                        Free                      Free                   Stop                   Stop
Grade                                0%                       0%                     0%                     0%            Grade                                0%                        0%                     0%                     0%
Volume (veh/h)                0      345       0       1      765       5       0      0       1      0       0       0   Volume (veh/h)                2      330       10    130       750       2      15      0      60      2       0       2
Peak Hour Factor           0.97     0.97    0.97    0.97     0.97    0.97    0.97   0.97    0.97   0.97    0.97    0.97   Peak Hour Factor           0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      356       0       1      789       5       0      0       1      0       0       0   Hourly flow rate (vph)        2      359       11    141       815       2      16      0      65      2       0       2
Pedestrians                                                                                                               Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                           Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                      Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                          Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                    Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                                         None                   None           Median type                                                                          None                   None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                       Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                      Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                     pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     794                       356                    1149    1152    356    1150    1149    791    vC, conflicting volume     815                        359                    1463    1461    359    1526    1461    815
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                     vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                     vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         794                       356                    1149    1152    356    1150    1149    791    vCu, unblocked vol         815                        359                    1463    1461    359    1526    1461    815
tC, single (s)              4.1                       4.1                     7.1     6.5    6.2     7.1     6.5    6.2   tC, single (s)              4.1                        4.1                     7.1     6.5    6.2     7.1     6.5    6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                           tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                       2.2                     3.5     4.0    3.3     3.5     4.0    3.3   tF (s)                      2.2                        2.2                     3.5     4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0    3.3
p0 queue free %            100                       100                     100     100    100     100     100    100    p0 queue free %            100                         88                      83     100     91     97      100     99
cM capacity (veh/h)        836                      1214                     177     199    693     176     200    393    cM capacity (veh/h)        821                       1206                      97     115    690     80      115    380
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         NB 1    SB 1                                                                  Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2     EB 3 WB 1 WB 2 WB 3             NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total               356  795            1        0                                                                 Volume Total                  2      359        11 141  815     2              82       4
Volume Left                   0    1           0        0                                                                 Volume Left                   2         0        0 141     0    0              16       2
Volume Right                  0    5           1        0                                                                 Volume Right                  0         0       11    0    0    2              65       2
cSH                        836 1214          693    1700                                                                  cSH                        821      1700     1700 1206 1700 1700              311     132
Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.00         0.00     0.00                                                                 Volume to Capacity        0.00       0.21     0.01 0.12 0.48 0.00            0.26    0.03
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           0        0                                                                 Queue Length 95th (ft)        0         0        0   10    0    0              26       3
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0        10.2      0.0                                                                 Control Delay (s)           9.4       0.0      0.0  8.4  0.0  0.0            20.6    33.1
Lane LOS                           A           B        A                                                                 Lane LOS                      A                       A                         C       D
Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.0        10.2      0.0                                                                 Approach Delay (s)          0.1                     1.2                      20.6    33.1
Approach LOS                                   B        A                                                                 Approach LOS                                                                    C       D
Intersection Summary                                                                                                      Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.0                                                                         Average Delay                                  2.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization          51.4%           ICU Level of Service               A                           Intersection Capacity Utilization           57.5%           ICU Level of Service               B
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                         Analysis Period (min)                           15




DKS Associates                                                                                       Synchro 6 Report     DKS Associates                                                                                        Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                                    Page 17      7/19/2011                                                                                                     Page 18
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
19: OR 126(W) & Fisher Rd                                              2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour    20: OR 126(W) & Richmond St                                            2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR                                            Movement                   EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR      SBL    SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop                                                   Sign Control                        Free    Free            Stop
Grade                                0%      0%              0%                                                    Grade                                0%      0%              0%
Volume (veh/h)               40      370     790       5       2    100                                            Volume (veh/h)                0      365     795       0       0       0
Peak Hour Factor           0.95     0.95    0.95    0.95    0.95    0.95                                           Peak Hour Factor           0.93     0.93    0.93    0.93    0.93    0.93
Hourly flow rate (vph)       42      389     832       5       2    105                                            Hourly flow rate (vph)        0      392     855       0       0       0
Pedestrians                                                                                                        Pedestrians                                     1
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)                             12.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)                          4.0
Percent Blockage                                                                                                   Percent Blockage                                0
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None                                                   Median type                                                 None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     832                              1305     832                                           vC, conflicting volume     855                              1248     855
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         832                              1305     832                                           vCu, unblocked vol         855                              1248     855
tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.9     6.2                                          tC, single (s)              4.1                               6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      2.2                               4.0     3.3                                          tF (s)                      2.2                               3.5     3.3
p0 queue free %             95                                98      72                                           p0 queue free %            100                               100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)        788                               133     371                                           cM capacity (veh/h)        794                               193     361
Direction, Lane #         EB 1      EB 2 WB 1 WB 2          SB 1                                                   Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         SB 1
Volume Total                42       389  832     5          107                                                   Volume Total               392  855             0
Volume Left                 42          0    0    0            2                                                   Volume Left                   0    0            0
Volume Right                  0         0    0    5          105                                                   Volume Right                  0    0            0
cSH                        788      1700 1700 1700           358                                                   cSH                        794 1700         1700
Volume to Capacity        0.05       0.23 0.49 0.00         0.30                                                   Volume to Capacity        0.00 0.50          0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        4         0    0    0           31                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0            0
Control Delay (s)           9.8       0.0  0.0  0.0         19.3                                                   Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.0          0.0
Lane LOS                      A                                C                                                   Lane LOS                                        A
Approach Delay (s)          1.0               0.0           19.3                                                   Approach Delay (s)          0.0      0.0      0.0
Approach LOS                                                   C                                                   Approach LOS                                    A
Intersection Summary                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 1.8                                                                  Average Delay                                 0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          54.5%          ICU Level of Service            A                        Intersection Capacity Utilization          45.2%          ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                          15




DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                                  Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 19    7/19/2011                                                                                               Page 20
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study      HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                        OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
21: OR 126(W) & Ken Neilsen Rd                                       2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour    22: OR 126(W) & Green Hill Rd                                     2011 Average Annual Weekday PM Peak Hour



Movement                   EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT    NBL     NBR                                           Movement                   EBL      EBT    EBR     WBL   WBT   WBR    NBL   NBT   NBR    SBL    SBT   SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                              Lane Configurations
Sign Control              Free                      Free   Stop                                                  Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Grade                      0%                        0%     0%                                                   Total Lost time (s)         4.0   4.0       4.0   4.0            4.0   4.0       4.0   4.0
Volume (veh/h)             370         0       5     790      0       2                                          Lane Util. Factor          1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00            1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00
Peak Hour Factor          0.90      0.90    0.90    0.90   0.90    0.90                                          Frt                        1.00 1.00       1.00 0.99            1.00 0.85       1.00 0.85
Hourly flow rate (vph)     411         0       6     878      0       2                                          Flt Protected              0.95 1.00       0.95 1.00            0.99 1.00       0.98 1.00
Pedestrians                                                                                                      Satd. Flow (prot)         1805 1820       1770 1841            1883 1583       1835 1615
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                  Flt Permitted              0.95 1.00       0.95 1.00            0.94 1.00       0.83 1.00
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                             Satd. Flow (perm)         1805 1820       1770 1841            1790 1583       1558 1615
Percent Blockage                                                                                                 Volume (vph)                 20  350    5  105   775   60    5    20   50   50    50   35
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                           Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
Median type                                                None                                                  Growth Factor (vph)      100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Median storage veh)                                                                                              Adj. Flow (vph)              22  376    5  113   833   65    5    22   54   54    54   38
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                             RTOR Reduction (vph)          0     0   0     0     2   0    0     0   47    0     0   33
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                            Lane Group Flow (vph)        22  381    0  113   896    0    0    27     7   0  108      5
vC, conflicting volume                       411           1300    411                                           Heavy Vehicles (%)          0%    4% 20%    2%    2%  3%   0%    0%   2%   0%    2%   0%
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                            Turn Type                  Prot            Prot           Perm       Perm Perm       Perm
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                            Protected Phases              5     2         1     6              8               4
vCu, unblocked vol                           411           1300    411                                           Permitted Phases                                             8           8   4           4
tC, single (s)                                4.1            6.4    6.2                                          Actuated Green, G (s)       1.6 38.1        8.6 45.1             8.8   8.8       8.8   8.8
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                  Effective Green, g (s)      1.6 40.1        8.6 47.1             8.8   8.8       8.8   8.8
tF (s)                                        2.2            3.5    3.3                                          Actuated g/C Ratio         0.02 0.58       0.12 0.68            0.13 0.13       0.13 0.13
p0 queue free %                              100            100    100                                           Clearance Time (s)          4.0   6.0       4.0   6.0            4.0   4.0       4.0   4.0
cM capacity (veh/h)                         1159            179    645                                           Vehicle Extension (s)       3.0   3.0       3.0   3.0            3.0   3.0       3.0   3.0
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         NB 1                                                                 Lane Grp Cap (vph)           42 1050       219 1248             227   200       197   204
Volume Total               411  883            2                                                                 v/s Ratio Prot             0.01 0.21      c0.06 c0.49
Volume Left                   0    6           0                                                                 v/s Ratio Perm                                                  0.02 0.00      c0.07 0.00
Volume Right                  0    0           2                                                                 v/c Ratio                  0.52 0.36       0.52 0.72            0.12 0.03       0.55 0.02
cSH                       1700 1159          645                                                                 Uniform Delay, d1          33.6   7.9      28.5   7.0           26.9 26.6       28.5 26.6
Volume to Capacity         0.24 0.00        0.00                                                                 Progression Factor         1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00            1.00 1.00       1.00 1.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)        0    0           0                                                                 Incremental Delay, d2      11.3   0.2       2.0   2.0            0.2   0.1       3.1   0.0
Control Delay (s)           0.0  0.1        10.6                                                                 Delay (s)                  44.9   8.1      30.6   9.0           27.1 26.7       31.6 26.6
Lane LOS                           A           B                                                                 Level of Service              D     A         C     A              C    C          C    C
Approach Delay (s)          0.0  0.1        10.6                                                                 Approach Delay (s)               10.1            11.4           26.8            30.3
Approach LOS                                   B                                                                 Approach LOS                        B               B              C               C

Intersection Summary                                                                                             Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.1                                                                HCM Average Control Delay                   13.5     HCM Level of Service            B
Intersection Capacity Utilization          55.6%       ICU Level of Service             B                        HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                0.70
Analysis Period (min)                          15                                                                Actuated Cycle Length (s)                   69.5     Sum of lost time (s)         12.0
                                                                                                                 Intersection Capacity Utilization         69.8%      ICU Level of Service           C
                                                                                                                 Analysis Period (min)                         15
                                                                                                                 c Critical Lane Group




DKS Associates                                                                                Synchro 6 Report   DKS Associates                                                                             Synchro 6 Report
7/19/2011                                                                                             Page 21    7/19/2011                                                                                          Page 22
                                         ODOT Collision Data




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                   P09042019 
COLLISION TYPES (2005 to 2009)

                                                                                               JEANS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                 ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                               CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                               FISHER RD
                                                                     WIGGINS



                                      JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                  GOBLE LN
                                                         WILDWOOD RD                                                                                                       JUDY

    BROADWAY                         AVE                                                                                                                                   KEN NIELSEN RD




                                                                                                                            D
          5TH ST




                                                                                                                      RAL R
                                                         HUSTON RD
 8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LA PORTE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                    OAK HILL                              CROW RD
                   TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                     CENT
                                     BOLTON RD   JOSEE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                W RD
                               CHENEY DR                                                                                        CANTRELL RD                                       CANTRELL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                           CRO
                                                                      BIGGS RD




                                                                                                        PERKINS RD
                                                     0




                                                     2




                                                                                                                                                                                                       MP 1 (Beltline)*
                                                     4
                                                                                                           MP 49*
                                                                        MP 48*




                                                     6




                                                                                                                                                              MP 52*
                                                     8
                                                                                                                                                    MP 51*

                                                    10
                                                                                                                                MP 50*




                                                    12




                                                    14




                                                    16
                                                           47.8
                                                           47.9
                                                           48.0
                                                           48.1
                                                           48.2
                                                           48.3
                                                           48.4
                                                           48.5
                                                           48.6
                                                           48.7
                                                           48.8
                                                           48.9
                                                           49.0
                                                           49.1
                                                           49.2
                                                           49.3
                                                           49.4
                                                           49.5
                                                           49.6
                                                           49.7
                                                           49.8
                                                           49.9
                                                           50.0
                                                           50.1
                                                           50.2
                                                           50.3
                                                           50.4
                                                           50.5
                                                           50.6
                                                           50.7
                                                           50.8
                                                           50.9
                                                           51.0
                                                           51.1
                                                           51.2
                                                           51.3
                                                           51.4
                                                           51.5
                                                           51.6
                                                           51.7
                                                           51.8
                                                           51.9
                                                           52.0
                                                           52.1
                                                           52.2
                                                           52.3
                                                           52.4
                                                           52.5
                                                           52.6
                                                           52.7
                                                           52.8
                                                           52.9
                                                           53.0
                                                           53.1
                                                           53.2
                                                           53.3
                                                           53.4
                                                           53.5
                                                           53.6
                                                           53.7
                                                           53.8
                                                           53.9
                                                                                                                                                Milepoint

                                                    *Note: Some ODOT collision records only specify the general milepoint.




          Legend
                       Collision Types

                                           Angle (T-Bone, No Turns)                                                                                Side-Swipe (Overtaking/Same Direction)
                                           Side-Swipe (Meeting Opp. Direction)                                                                     Fixed Object (e.g., Into Ditch)
                                           Non-Collision (e.g., Roll-Over)                                                                         Rear-End
                                           Pedestrian                                                                                              Turning
                                           Head-On                                                                                                 Other (e.g., Animal)



                                                                                                                                              OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
                                                                                                    ODOT Collision Data (2005 to 2009)

MP_NO CRASH_ID SER_NO CRASH_DT              Day Hr      Highway           Cross Street                  Location Weather Surface Light   Crash Type Collision    Severity Cause        Veh Type     Veh Mvmt From To Inj Sev
                                                                                                                                                    Type
   0.28   1347034       3687   11/24/2009     3   7A    BELTLINE                                      UN         CLR     DRY     DAY     NONCOLL      NCOL       PDO              10   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
   0.29   1203043       2445     7/7/2006     6   5P    BELTLINE                                      UN         CLR     DRY     DAY     ANGLOTH      ANGL       INJ               2   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    INJB
    0.3   1349285      94146   12/28/2009     2   2P    BELTLINE                                      W          CLD     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX        PDO              10   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
    0.4   1154737       1053    4/10/2005     1   5P    BELTLINE                                      UN         CLD     WET     DAY     OSTRGHT      HEAD       FAT               5   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    KILL
   0.52   1250403       1805    5/17/2007     5   3P    BELTLINE                                      SE         CLR     DRY     DAY     SSTRGHT      REAR       INJ               7   TRUCK        STRGHT   E    W    NONE
   0.52   1318528        611     3/2/2009     2   5P    BELTLINE                                      W          CLD     WET     DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX        INJ               1   PSNGR CAR    TURNR    E    N    INJC
   0.56   1261639       3969   10/21/2007     1   10A   BELTLINE                                      UN         CLR     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX        PDO              26   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
    0.6   1349282       4146   12/28/2009     2   2P    BELTLINE                                      UN         CLD     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX        PDO              10   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
   0.68   1226192      60001   11/27/2006     2   12A   BELTLINE                                      UN         RAIN    WET     DARK    OSTRGHT      SSM        INJ              33   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    INJA
   0.68   1352841       4181   12/27/2009     1   2A    BELTLINE                                      UN         RAIN    ICE     DARK    FIX OBJ      FIX        INJ               1   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    INJB
   0.69   1209227       2402     7/9/2006     1   6P    BELTLINE                                      UN         CLR     DRY     DAY     S1STOP       REAR       INJ              32   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
   0.69   1262726       4211   11/12/2007     2   11P   BELTLINE                                      UN         CLR     DRY     DARK    ANIMAL       OTH        PDO              12   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
    0.7   1264344       4582    12/6/2007     5   6A    BELTLINE                                      E          CLD     WET     DARK    S1STOP       REAR       INJ               7   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    INJC
   0.71   1284320       1748    5/26/2008     2   4P    BELTLINE                                      UN         CLD     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX        PDO               7   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
   0.71   1342068       3004    10/6/2009     3   8A    BELTLINE                                      UN         CLR     DRY     DAY     S1STOP       REAR       INJ               1   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    INJB
   0.73   1280775       1366    4/23/2008     4   8A    BELTLINE                                      E          CLR     DRY     DAY     OSTRGHT      HEAD       INJ              10   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
    0.8   1186075        463     2/5/2006     1   6A    BELTLINE                                      UN         CLR     ICE     DARK    FIX OBJ      FIX        INJ               1   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    INJB
    0.9   1191597        918    3/13/2006     2   5P    BELTLINE                                      UN         RAIN    WET     DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX        INJ               1   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    INJC
      1   1165819       3044    8/24/2005     4   6P    BELTLINE                                      UN         CLR     DRY     DAY     SSTRGHT      SSO        PDO               6   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
      1   1212732       3064    8/22/2006     3   12P   BELTLINE                                      UN         CLR     DRY     DAY     S1STOP       REAR       PDO               1   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
      1   1212774       3373    9/15/2006     6   1P    BELTLINE                                      UN         CLR     DRY     DAY     S1STOP       REAR       PDO               1   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
   1.18   1255222       3364    10/2/2007     3   5P    BELTLINE                                      W          CLD     DRY     DAY     OSTRGHT      SSM        FAT              10   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    INJB
    1.2   1296412       3761   11/12/2008     4   8A    BELTLINE                                      UN         RAIN    WET     DAWN    S1STOP       REAR       PDO               7   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
   1.22   1256639       2121    6/13/2007     4   7P    BELTLINE                                      W          CLR     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX        INJ              10   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
   1.25   1144441        451     2/7/2005     2   7A    BELTLINE                                      UN         FOG     ICE     DAY     OSTRGHT      SSM        INJ               5   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    INJB
   1.25   1185763        259    1/20/2006     6   7A    BELTLINE                                      UN         RAIN    WET     DAWN    S1STOP       REAR       INJ               1   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    INJC
   1.26   1247075       1452    4/28/2007     7   6P    BELTLINE                                      CN         CLR     DRY     DAY     O1TURN       TURN       INJ               2   PSNGR CAR    TURNL    N    E    INJB
   1.26   1256251       2034     6/5/2007     3   4P    BELTLINE                                      UN         CLR     DRY     DAY     S1STOP       REAR       PDO              27   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
   1.26   1257521       2693    7/22/2007     1   2P    BELTLINE                                      UN         CLR     DRY     DAY     SSTRGHT      REAR       INJ               7   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
   1.27   1275404        672    2/29/2008     6   6P    BELTLINE                                      W          RAIN    WET     DUSK    S1STOP       REAR       PDO               7   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
   1.28   1165810       2992    8/18/2005     5   9A    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD           CN             CLR     DRY     DAY     S1STOP       REAR       INJ               1   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
   1.28   1191610       1042    3/25/2006     7   3P    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD           CN             CLR     DRY     DAY     ANGLOTH      ANGL       INJ               2   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    INJC
   1.28   1208605       2976    8/15/2006     3   2P    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD           E              CLR     DRY     DAY     SSTRGHT      REAR       PDO               7   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
   1.28   1225590       4077    11/3/2006     6   7P    BELTLINE                                      W          CLR     DRY     DLIT    S1STOP       REAR       PDO               7   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
   1.28   1275875        807    3/11/2008     3   8A    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD           CN             CLD     DRY     DAWN    ANGLOTH      ANGL       INJ               4   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
   1.28   1288901       2662    8/11/2008     2   1P    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD           W              CLR     DRY     DAY     S1STOP       REAR       INJ               7   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
   1.28   1323286       1089    4/23/2009     5   1P    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD           S              CLR     DRY     DAY     SSTRGHT      REAR       PDO               7   PSNGR CAR    TURNL    E    S    NONE
   1.28   1332256       2099    7/12/2009     1   1P    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD           E              RAIN    WET     DAY     S1STOP       REAR       PDO               7   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
  47.84   1199596   01754       5/23/2006     3   9P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD                     CN       RAIN    WET     DARK    O-1TURN      TURN       INJ               2   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    INJB
  47.84   1250246   01747       5/19/2007     7   12P   FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD                     S        CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP      REAR       INJ               7   PSNGR CAR    TURN-R   S    E    NONE
  47.84   1260426   03476       9/22/2007     7   1P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 CN       CLR     DRY     DAY     O-1TURN      TURN       INJ               2   PSNGR CAR    TURN-L   E    S    INJB
  47.84   1289701   02829       8/26/2008     3   1A    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD                     CN       CLR     DRY     DLIT    ANGL-OTH     ANGL       INJ               3   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   S    N    INJC
  47.85   1314753   00042        1/2/2009     6   10P   FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD                     E        FOG     ICE     DARK    FIX OBJ      FIX        INJ               1   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    INJC
  47.88   1151317   01535        5/9/2005     2   3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD                     W        RAIN    WET     DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN       PDO               2   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
   47.9   1202840   02338        7/4/2006     3   9P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD                     E        CLR     DRY     DARK    ANIMAL       OTH        PDO              12   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
  47.94   1346830   03591      11/20/2009     6   5P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD                     UN       RAIN    WET     DARK    S-1STOP      REAR       INJ               1   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
     48   1172421   04882      12/21/2005     4   12P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 UN       RAIN    WET     DAY     S-1STOP      REAR       PDO               1   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   W    E    NONE
     48   1213032   03553       9/28/2006     5   8A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     O-1TURN      TURN       INJ               2   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    INJB
     48   1286976   02295       7/11/2008     6   12P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP      REAR       PDO               7   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
     48   1335289   02354        8/8/2009     7   12P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP      REAR       PDO               7   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
     48   1336579   02538       8/21/2009     6   8A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     O-1TURN      TURN       PDO               2   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
  48.23   1347553   03822       12/4/2009     6   5P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 UN       CLR     DRY     DARK    S-1STOP      REAR       PDO               7   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   N    S    NONE
   48.4   1221788   03984      10/31/2006     3   10P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 UN       CLR     DRY     DARK    S-1STOP      REAR       PDO               1   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
  48.43   1178795   03732       10/5/2005     4   7A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 CN       CLR     DRY     DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN       INJ               2   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    INJC
  48.43   1202841   02334        7/4/2006     3   1P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 CN       CLR     DRY     DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN       PDO               2   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
  48.43   1262208   04070       11/2/2007     6   7A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 CN       CLD     DRY     DAWN    ANGL-OTH     TURN       INJ               2   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    INJC
  48.43   1274356   00224       1/18/2008     6   5P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 CN       CLD     DRY     DUSK    O-1TURN      TURN       PDO               2   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   E    W    NONE
  48.43   1294318   03326       10/9/2008     5   7A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 CN       CLR     DRY     DAY     ANGL-OTH     ANGL       INJ               2   PSNGR CAR    STRGHT   N    S    INJC
   48.5   1339215   02716        9/8/2009     3   10A   FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     BIKE         TURN       INJ               2                                   INJB
   48.5   1346127   03451       11/8/2009     1   10A   FLORENCE-EUGENE                                 UN       CLD     WET     DAY     ANIMAL       OTH        PDO              12   PSNGR CAR STRGHT      W    E    NONE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 1 of 3
                                                                                      ODOT Collision Data (2005 to 2009)

MP_NO CRASH_ID SER_NO CRASH_DT           Day Hr      Highway           Cross Street      Location Weather Surface Light   Crash Type Collision   Severity Cause        Veh Type    Veh Mvmt From To Inj Sev
                                                                                                                                     Type
  48.53   1229109   00867     3/8/2007     5   7P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLD     WET     DARK    ANIMAL     OTH         INJ              12   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   INJB
  48.53   1230130   00857     3/8/2007     5   7P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     E        CLD     WET     DARK    PRKD MV    REAR        PDO              10   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
  48.63   1234041   00186    1/14/2007     1   UNK   FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        INJ               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   INJC
     49   1149580   01431    4/28/2005     5   7P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DARK    BIKE       TURN        INJ               6   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
     49   1159820   02399     7/8/2005     6   1P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
     49   1181196   02683    7/31/2005     1   6P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        INJ               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
     49   1298059   04165   12/14/2008     1   1A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       SNOW    ICE     DARK    FIX OBJ    FIX         INJ               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   INJB
     49   1327397   01499    5/29/2009     6   7P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ    FIX         INJ               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   INJB
  49.21   1205852   02558    7/16/2006     1   11P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DARK    O-STRGHT   SS-M        INJ              16   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   INJB
   49.3   1332337   02109    7/12/2009     1   3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       RAIN    WET     DAY     FIX OBJ    FIX         INJ              26   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   INJB
  49.42   1201600   02407     7/9/2006     1   7P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        PDO               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
  49.44   1285862   02088    6/26/2008     5   5P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        PDO               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
  49.58   1317371   80021     1/2/2009     6   11P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                     W        CLD     ICE     DARK    FIX OBJ    FIX         INJ               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
  49.71   1181197   04072    11/3/2005     5   3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       RAIN    WET     DAY     ANIMAL     OTH         PDO              12   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
  49.73   1287589   02413    7/19/2008     7   5P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        PDO               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
  49.73   1353577   04072   11/22/2009     1   6A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     N        CLD     WET     DARK    S-1STOP    REAR        INJ               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   S    N   NONE
  49.75   1236136   00781     3/5/2007     2   11A   FLORENCE-EUGENE                     CN       CLR     DRY     DAY     ANGL-OTH   TURN        INJ               2   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   INJB
  49.75   1256530   02075    6/10/2007     1   10P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                     S        CLR     DRY     DARK    FIX OBJ    FIX         INJ              10   MTRCYCLE    TURN-L   E    S   INJC
  49.75   1262715   04242   11/15/2007     5   8P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     CN       RAIN    WET     DARK    S-1TURN    TURN        INJ              10   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
  49.75   1279385   01193     4/9/2008     4   7A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     CN       CLR     DRY     DAY     O-1TURN    TURN        PDO               2   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   N    S   NONE
  49.78   1278536   01067    3/31/2008     2   3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     E        CLR     DRY     DAY     O-STRGHT   OTH         INJ              10   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
  49.81   1265788   04863   12/23/2007     1   8A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     E        RAIN    WET     DAY     FIX OBJ    FIX         PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
  49.85   1287747   02461    7/19/2008     7   6P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        INJ               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
  49.94   1262692   04201   11/12/2007     2   3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       RAIN    WET     DAY     S-STRGHT   REAR        PDO               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
  49.97   1286590   02217     7/6/2008     1   7A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ    FIX         INJ              16   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   INJC
     50   1156413   02076    6/15/2005     4   6P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        INJ               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   INJB
     50   1173275   04774   12/18/2005     1   9A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     ICE     DAY     FIX OBJ    FIX         PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
     50   1186088   00183    1/18/2006     4   8P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLD     WET     DARK    O-STRGHT   SS-M        INJ               5   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   INJC
     50   1185787   00338    1/26/2006     5   2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       RAIN    WET     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
     50   1191599   01074    3/27/2006     2   2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
     50   1193338   01143     4/3/2006     2   6A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ    FIX         PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
     50   1193320   01154     4/4/2006     3   9P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DARK    S-1STOP    REAR        PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
     50   1195862   01492    4/27/2006     5   5P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
     50   1202834   02277    6/29/2006     5   4P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
     50   1287588   02412    7/19/2008     7   6P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        INJ               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
     50   1349710   04180   12/27/2009     1   4A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       RAIN    WET     DARK    FIX OBJ    FIX         PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
   50.1   1330331   01814    6/19/2009     6   2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-STRGHT   REAR        PDO              27   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
   50.8   1316109   00305    1/28/2009     4   10P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DARK    S-1STOP    REAR        INJ               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   INJB
     51   1164733   03182     9/3/2005     7   1P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1TURN    TURN        INJ               8   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
     51   1167236   03548    9/29/2005     5   4P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ    FIX         PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
     51   1172422   04884   12/21/2005     4   2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       RAIN    WET     DAY     O-1TURN    TURN        INJ               2   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   INJB
     51   1199593   01733    5/18/2006     5   3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ    FIX         INJ               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   INJB
     51   1324635   01236     5/1/2009     6   2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     ANIMAL     OTH         PDO              12   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
     51   1332083   02059    7/15/2009     4   9A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ    FIX         PDO              10   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
     51   1333617   02235    7/27/2009     2   5P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        PDO               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
  51.01   1315934   00260    1/24/2009     7   6A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DARK    O-STRGHT   HEAD        PDO              16   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
   51.3   1201044   02130    6/20/2006     3   2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        INJ               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
  51.55   1300268   04403   12/26/2008     6   8A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLD     ICE     DAY     PRKD MV    SS-O        PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
  51.55   1318446   00608     3/2/2009     2   4P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLD     DRY     DAY     OVERTURN   NCOL        INJ              27   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   INJC
   51.6   1260959   03576    9/28/2007     6   6P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        PDO               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
   51.6   1264368   04590    12/6/2007     5   5A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     W        RAIN    WET     DARK    S-STRGHT   REAR        PDO               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
   51.8   1189310   00741     3/1/2006     4   7P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DARK    S-1STOP    REAR        INJ               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   INJC
  51.92   1258003   02759    7/29/2007     1   3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        INJ               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
     52   1185783   00248    1/15/2006     1   1P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ    FIX         INJ               1   MTRCYCLE    STRGHT   W    E   INJB
     52   1188260   00681    2/21/2006     3   3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1TURN    TURN        INJ              32   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   INJC
     52   1191598   00761     3/2/2006     5   9P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DARK    FIX OBJ    FIX         INJ               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   INJA
     52   1202835   02202    6/22/2006     5   6P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     O-STRGHT   SS-M        PDO               5   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
     52   1330563   01852    6/24/2009     4   2A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DARK    FIX OBJ    FIX         PDO              10   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE
  52.02   1284752   01884     6/8/2008     1   2A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DARK    O-STRGHT   SS-M        PDO               5   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE



                                                                                                                                                                                                     Page 2 of 3
                                                                                                ODOT Collision Data (2005 to 2009)

MP_NO CRASH_ID SER_NO CRASH_DT                   Day Hr        Highway           Cross Street      Location Weather Surface Light   Crash Type Collision   Severity Cause        Veh Type    Veh Mvmt From To Inj Sev
                                                                                                                                               Type
   52.09     1287818   02477         7/26/2008      7    2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        PDO               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
    52.1     1284337   01755         5/31/2008      7    4P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     N        CLR     DRY     DAY     S-1STOP    REAR        INJ               7   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   N    S   NONE
   52.12     1329315   01715         6/11/2009      5    9P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLD     DRY     DUSK    FIX OBJ    FIX         INJ              10   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   INJC
   52.36     1256244   02026          6/5/2007      3    10P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                     W        CLR     DRY     DARK    ANIMAL     OTH         PDO              12   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   E    W   NONE
    52.5     1194663   01432         4/28/2006      6    3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                     UN       CLR     DRY     DAY     FIX OBJ    FIX         PDO               1   PSNGR CAR   STRGHT   W    E   NONE



Crash Causes:
01 Speed too fast for conditions (not exceeding limit)
02 Did not yield rightofway
03 Passed stop sign or red flasher
04 Disregarded RAG traffic signal
05 Drove left of center on twoway road
06 Improper overtaking
07 Followed too closely
08 Made improper turn
10 Other improper driving
11 Mechanical defect
12 Other (not improper driving)
13 Improper change of traffic lanes (2004)
14 Disregarded other traffic control device (2006)
15 Wrong way on oneway roadway (2006)
16 Driver drowsy / fatigued / sleepy (2006)
18 NonMotorist illegally in roadway (2006)
19 NonMotorist clothing not visible (2006)
20 Vehicle improperly parked
21 Defective steering mechanism
22 Inadequate or no brakes
24 Vehicle lost load or load shifted
25 Tire failure
26 Phantom / noncontact vehicle
27 Inattention
30 Driving in excess of posted speed (2006)
31 Speed Racing (Per PAR) (2006)
32 Careless Driving (Per PAR) (2006)
33 Reckless Driving (Per PAR) (2006)
34* Aggressive Driving (Per PAR) (2006)
35* Road Rage (Per PAR) (2006)




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
                                                                          ODOT Collision Data (1994 to 2004)

MP_NO CRASH_ID SER_NO CRASH_DT          Day Hr    Highway           Cross Street    Locatio   Weather   Surface   Light   Crash Type   Collision Type   Severity   Veh Type    Veh Mvmt   From   To   Inj
    0.2  262185 02162         4/19/1996   6 6P    BELTLINE                          UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
    0.2 1100895       640     2/28/2004   7 1P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-1TURN      TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
    0.2 1112406      1932      6/7/2004   2 6A    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   0.25  363023      2834     6/19/1994   1 7P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   0.28  361085        13      1/3/1994   2 10A   BELTLINE                          UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   0.28  265205 07812        12/30/1996   2 2P    BELTLINE                          UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        SEMI TOW    STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   0.36  361656       824     2/24/1994   5 11P   BELTLINE          BELTLINE RD     N         CLD       WET       DARK    O-STRGHT     HEAD             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     N      S    NONE
   0.38 1129690      3640    10/11/2004   2 6P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
    0.5   63697      2157     4/26/2000   4 4P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
    0.5 1074694      3819      8/1/2003   6 1P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
    0.5 1119912      2879     8/16/2004   2 6P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
    0.5 1129691      3573     10/6/2004   4 8A    BELTLINE                          UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
    0.5 1129692      3540    10/14/2004   5 10A   BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
    0.5 1132624      4106     11/9/2004   3 5P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DARK    S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     S      N    NONE
   0.53  314101 2826          5/26/1995   6 7A    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   W         CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   0.53  315156 04829          9/8/1995   6 7A    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   0.53  315845 6317         11/11/1995   7 12A   BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   W         RAIN      WET       DARK    O-STRGHT     NCOL             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   0.53  261458 01099         2/22/1996   5 6A    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       ICE       DLIT    FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    INJC
   0.53  261483 01125         2/24/1996   7 8A    BELTLINE                          UN        SNOW      ICE       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   0.67  364320      5608     11/7/1994   2 6A    BELTLINE                          UN        CLD       ICE       DARK    FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJB
   0.69  261445 01086         2/22/1996   5 6A    BELTLINE                          UN        CLD       ICE       DARK    S-STRGHT     REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    INJB
    0.7  265066 07544        12/16/1996   2 10A   BELTLINE                          CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJC
   0.78  263532 04469          8/8/1996   5 7P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1TURN      TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   0.88  263609 04648         8/14/1996   4 3P    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   W         CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   TURN-R     S      E    NONE
   0.95  265227 07837        12/31/1996   3 1P    BELTLINE                          UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
      1  111793 03864         7/13/1999   3 9A    BELTLINE                          W         CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    INJB
      1 1040131      3442     6/13/2002   5 5P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
      1 1040923      4892     9/23/2002   2 4P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   1.01  209936 00076          1/3/1997   6 4P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLD       WET       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   1.03  314326 03284         6/13/1995   3 3P    BELTLINE                          UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   1.03  263382 04224         7/26/1996   6 4P    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   W         CLR       DRY       DAY     O-1TURN      TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   1.03  213081 05623         9/27/1997   7 5P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   1.03  159351 00742          2/9/1998   2 7P    BELTLINE                          UN        RAIN      WET       DARK    FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   1.06   63745      2234     4/27/2000   5 4P    BELTLINE          BELTLINE RD     W         CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   1.06   65126      4842      9/1/2000   6 11A   BELTLINE          BELTLINE RD     W         RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   1.07   64835      4258     8/13/2000   1 5P    BELTLINE          BELTLINE RD     W         CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    INJC
   1.08  211579 02773         5/18/1997   1 7P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-STRGHT     OTH              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   1.13   16629      1999     4/18/2001   4 12A   BELTLINE          BELTLINE RD     W         CLR       DRY       DLIT    FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   1.18  261001 00437         1/23/1996   3 5P    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   W         RAIN      WET       DLIT    S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   1.18  160956 03098         6/11/1998   5 5P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   1.24  212653 04689         8/15/1997   6 5P    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   W         CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1TURN      TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   1.25  363752      4398      9/8/1994   5 7A    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   W         RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJB
   1.27  361791      1087     3/26/1994   7 7P    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   W         CLR       DRY       DLIT    S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   1.27  364024      4995    10/11/1994   3 8P    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   W         CLR       DRY       DARK    ANIMAL       OTH              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    INJC
   1.27  315170 04843          9/9/1995   7 6P    BELTLINE                          UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   1.28  361741       948      3/2/1994   4 9A    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   E         RAIN      WET       DAY     ANGL-STP     TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   TURN-L     W      N    NONE
   1.28  313259 1422          3/22/1995   4 7A    BELTLINE                          W         RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   1.28  261686 01393          3/9/1996   7 10A   BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     ANGL             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     S      N    INJB
   1.28  210848 01483         3/15/1997   7 1P    BELTLINE                          W         CLR       DRY       DAY     S-STRGHT     REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   1.28  211540 02667         5/14/1997   4 6A    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   W         CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   1.28   62922       984     4/30/2000   1 11P   BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   UN        CLR       DRY       DLIT    FIX OBJ      FIX              FAT        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    KILL
   1.28 1040209      3586     7/21/2002   1 7P    BELTLINE                          CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     ANGL             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     S      N    INJB
   1.28 1040625      4335     8/27/2002   3 6P    BELTLINE          GREEN HILL RD   E         CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
  47.84  364141 5229         10/23/1994   1 8A    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-1TURN      TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
  47.84  210019 00185          1/8/1997   4 8A    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    INJB
  47.84  159492 00932         2/19/1998   5 7A    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       E         RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
  47.84  159809 01399         3/17/1998   3 5P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   TURN-L     S      W    NONE
  47.84  160643 02591         5/25/1998   2 2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     ANGL             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
  47.84  161239 03515         7/10/1998   6 1P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       N         CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     N      S    NONE
  47.84   62533 00416         1/23/2000   1 12A   FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       CN        FOG       SNO       DLIT    ANGL-OTH     ANGL             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     S      N    NONE
  47.85  111802 03889         7/15/1999   5 11A   FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       E         CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
  47.86   65604 05946        10/28/2000   7 11A   FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       E         CLR       DRY       DAY     O-1TURN      TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJB




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Page 1 of 3
                                                                          ODOT Collision Data (1994 to 2004)

MP_NO CRASH_ID SER_NO CRASH_DT          Day Hr    Highway           Cross Street    Locatio   Weather   Surface   Light   Crash Type   Collision Type   Severity   Veh Type    Veh Mvmt   From   To   Inj
  47.89 1039548 02323         5/17/2002   6 2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-1TURN      TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    INJB
  47.89 1079391 03389         7/11/2003   6 11A   FLORENCE-EUGENE                   CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     ANGL             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
  47.89 1074521 03920         8/12/2003   3 12P   FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-1TURN      TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     N      S    NONE
  47.89 1089818 05726        11/20/2003   5 5P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   UNKNOWN NAME    CN        RAIN      WET       DARK    ANGL-OTH     ANGL             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
  47.89 1106085 00932         3/25/2004   5 7A    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-1TURN      TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     S      N    NONE
   47.9  956558 01446         3/25/2003   3 2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       E         RAIN      WET       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
  47.91  954870 01166          3/8/2003   7 10A   FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       E         CLD       WET       DAY     O-STRGHT     SS-M             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    INJB
  47.94  265030 07442        12/13/1996   6 4P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       W         CLR       DRY       DUSK    ANGL-OTH     TURN             INJ        SEMI TOW    STRGHT     W      E    NONE
     48  263043 03602         6/26/1996   4 11A   FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
     48 1039002 01477         3/23/2002   7 7P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DARK    FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        MTRCYCLE    STRGHT     E      W    INJC
     48 1041700 06046        11/18/2002   2 3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
     48 1074925 03722         7/27/2003   1 5P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
     48 1088128 05617         11/9/2003   1 11A   FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
     48 1106046 01325         4/22/2004   5 7P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DUSK    FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJC
  48.09  261913 01726         3/25/1996   2 5P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       E         CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1TURN      TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
  48.34  159518 00974         2/24/1998   3 8A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJB
  48.46  213297 05966        10/15/1997   4 3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   TURN-L     N      E    NONE
  48.46  110320 01026         2/23/1999   3 2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   CN        CLD       WET       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJC
  48.47  315202 04876         9/13/1995   4 3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJB
  48.49  161465 03854         7/23/1998   5 4P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
   48.5  113272 06758        11/22/1999   2 6P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        RAIN      WET       DARK    PED          PED              INJ                                           INJA
   48.6 1106044 01313         4/21/2004   4 3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJC
  48.69  161422 03786         7/20/1998   2 7P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
  48.78  261679 01385          3/8/1996   6 2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
  48.84  313976 02634         5/17/1995   4 2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE   HUSTON RD       E         CLR       DRY       DAY     O-1TURN      TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   TURN-L     W      N    NONE
  48.89  364207      5297    10/29/1994   7 2A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        FOG       WET       DARK    O-STRGHT     SS-M             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
  48.97  159279 00647          2/3/1998   3 10A   FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJC
     49  265048 07461        12/14/1996   7 5A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       ICE       DLIT    PRKD MV      SS-O             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
     49   64534 03686         8/16/2000   4 6P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             FAT        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    INJC
     49   65472 05637        10/20/2000   6 4P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
     49 1039091 01607          4/8/2002   2 4P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1TURN      TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    INJA
     49  970519 03177         6/26/2003   5 7A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     PED          PED              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
     49 1106051 01355         4/23/2004   6 4P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
  49.31   18692 06283        11/19/2001   2 3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
  49.42  361636       780     2/19/1994   7 3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLD       UNK       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJB
   49.5  316328 07341        12/28/1995   5 1P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
   49.5  264266 05826         10/9/1996   4 3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        MOTRHOME    STRGHT     W      E    NONE
  49.75  361858      1208      3/6/1994   1 9P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   CN        CLR       DRY       DARK    O-1TURN      TURN             INJ        MTRCYCLE    STRGHT     W      E    INJB
  49.75  312777 00703          2/2/1995   5 9P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   CN        FOG       DRY       DARK    ANGL-OTH     ANGL             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     S      N    INJB
  49.75  314496 03489          7/4/1995   3 1P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   N         CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   TURN-R     E      N    NONE
  49.75  314658 03725         8/10/1995   5 1P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   CN        RAIN      WET       DAY     ANGL-OTH     ANGL             FAT        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    INJB
  49.75  262438 02586          5/9/1996   5 7P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   CN        CLR       DRY       DUSK    ANGL-OTH     ANGL             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
  49.75  262983 03532         6/20/1996   5 4P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     ANGL             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     N      S    NONE
  49.75  212346 04122         7/20/1997   1 7P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
  49.75  213196 05793         10/4/1997   7 5P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   S         RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     S      N    NONE
   49.8   16329 01619          4/2/2001   2 2P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-STRGHT     SS-M             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJA
  49.82  263956 05364         9/17/1996   3 12P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
  49.97   62489 00355         1/17/2000   2 8A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        FOG       ICE       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
     50  260778 00138          1/4/1996   5 4P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DUSK    S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
     50  110126 00639          2/2/1999   3 9A    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     O-STRGHT     SS-M             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    NONE
     50   17243 3439           7/5/2001   5 4P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
     50   18697 06288        11/19/2001   2 3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
     50 1038915 01266         5/16/2002   5 8P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        RAIN      WET       DUSK    O-STRGHT     SS-M             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W    INJC
     50 1040127 03432         7/13/2002   7 12P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-STRGHT     SS-O             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     N      S    NONE
     50  969698 02977         6/20/2003   6 10P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DARK    FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
     50  969807 03044         6/21/2003   7 3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
     50 1074922 03629         7/25/2003   6 3P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-STRGHT     SS-O             PDO        MTRCYCLE    STRGHT     W      E    NONE
     50 1074678 03757          8/3/2003   1 10P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DARK    O-1TURN      TURN             INJ        MTRCYCLE    STRGHT     E      W    INJA
     50 1104828 00863         3/20/2004   7 12P   FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E    NONE
     50 1106025 01101          4/4/2004   1 6P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        MTRCYCLE    STRGHT     E      W    INJA
     50 1112703 02015         6/12/2004   7 9P    FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DARK    S-STRGHT     SS-O             PDO        MTRCYCLE    STRGHT     W      E    NONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Page 2 of 3
                                                                        ODOT Collision Data (1994 to 2004)

MP_NO CRASH_ID SER_NO CRASH_DT          Day Hr  Highway           Cross Street    Locatio   Weather   Surface   Light   Crash Type   Collision Type   Severity   Veh Type    Veh Mvmt   From   To Inj
   50.1  212594 04565         8/18/1997   2 11P FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DARK    S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
  50.32  361459       539      2/4/1994   6 11P FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLD       WET       DARK    O-STRGHT     SS-M             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W  NONE
  50.41  212073 03703         6/29/1997   1 12P FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W  NONE
   50.5   18751 6394         11/26/2001   2 12P FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  INJC
  50.56  110292 00981         2/19/1999   6 7A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLD       WET       DAWN    S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
   50.6  362578      2225     5/14/1994   7 7P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DUSK    OVERTURN     NCOL             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
  50.69  161995 04784          9/3/1998   5 12P FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W  NONE
  50.69   18046 4900          9/14/2001   6 1A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DARK    FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
   50.7   64994 4541          8/18/2000   6 10P FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DARK    O-STRGHT     HEAD             FAT        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W  KILL
  50.75  212275 03998         7/12/1997   7 7A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-STRGHT     SS-M             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W  NONE
  50.88  261930 01746         3/28/1996   5 2P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W  NONE
  50.95  313956 2602          5/20/1995   7 4P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W  NONE
  50.97  111060 02199         4/23/1999   6 9A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANIMAL       OTH              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
     51  364455      5822    11/20/1994   1 7A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       ICE       DAWN    FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
     51  364453      5820    11/20/1994   1 9A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W  NONE
     51  159970 01620         3/31/1998   3 6P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DUSK    O-STRGHT     SS-M             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W  NONE
     51   17398 3668          7/11/2001   4 7P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
     51   19076 7068         12/21/2001   6 3P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       ICE       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
     51 1038950 1361          3/23/2002   7 2P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     O-STRGHT     SS-M             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
     51  970522 3199           7/4/2003   6 11P FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DARK    FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W  NONE
     51 1076392 4237          8/29/2003   6 5P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
     51 1110851 1780          5/29/2004   7 9A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W  NONE
   51.1  162503 05796        10/25/1998   1 UNK FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
   51.4 1038155 00124         1/10/2002   5 3P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-STRGHT     REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
   51.5   18982 6886         12/16/2001   1 6A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        RAIN      WET       DARK    FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
   51.5 1079644 4613          9/18/2003   5 9A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-STRGHT     SS-M             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W  NONE
   51.5 1079642 4811          9/26/2003   6 12P FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E  NONE
   51.6  362555      2199     5/10/1994   3 9A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     BIKE         SS-O             INJ                                         INJA
   51.6  263244 03980         7/13/1996   7 2P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W INJB
   51.6  210672 01215          4/2/1997   4 8A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      SE INJC
   51.6  212382 04201         7/23/1997   4 6P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E INJC
  51.69   18051 4905          9/14/2001   6 5P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W NONE
  51.85  159761 01318         3/12/1998   5 8A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E NONE
  51.94  314885 04265          8/9/1995   4 4P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E INJC
  51.97  315761 6228          11/4/1995   7 9P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DARK    FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E NONE
     52  314179 02991          6/2/1995   6 12A FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DARK    PRKD MV      ANGL             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W NONE
     52   17378 3641           7/5/2001   5 5P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-STRGHT     TURN             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E NONE
     52   17279 3502           7/6/2001   6 10P FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DARK    ANIMAL       OTH              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W NONE
     52   17586 3983          7/30/2001   2 10A FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W NONE
     52 1038074 00005          1/1/2002   3 2P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W INJB
     52  954890 1084           3/5/2003   4 3P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLD       DRY       DAY     S-1TURN      TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W INJC
     52  966127 2133           5/3/2003   7 9A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W NONE
     52  966360 2415          5/18/2003   1 7P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E NONE
     52  967708 2848          6/12/2003   5 9A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     S-STRGHT     SS-O             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E NONE
     52  970523 3185           7/1/2003   3 9P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DUSK    S-1STOP      REAR             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W NONE
     52 1076380 4133          8/24/2003   1 7P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W NONE
     52 1080824 5061         10/14/2003   3 9A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-STRGHT     SS-M             PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E NONE
     52 1098902 80309         1/28/2004   4 2P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     O-STRGHT     SS-M             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E INJC
     52 1097821 301           1/31/2004   7 3P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        RAIN      WET       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E INJC
  52.04  313820 02406          5/5/1995   6 1P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-STRGHT     OTH              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W NONE
   52.1  264124 05625         11/4/1996   2 5P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    W         RAIN      WET       DLIT    S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E NONE
   52.1  162366 05555         10/9/1998   6 7P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    CN        RAIN      WET       DLIT    O-1TURN      TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W NONE
   52.1  110316 01022         2/23/1999   3 1P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    CN        RAIN      WET       DAY     O-1TURN      TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W INJC
   52.1   16902 2750          5/30/2001   4 3P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W NONE
   52.1 1079861 6127         12/19/2003   6 6A FLORENCE-EUGENE                    CN        FOG       WET       DAWN    ANGL-OTH     TURN             FAT        PSNGR CAR   TURN-L     N      E INJC
  52.12  363126      2990     6/28/1994   3 11A FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     OVERTURN     NCOL             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W INJB
  52.14  264969 07317         12/7/1996   7 5P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        RAIN      WET       DARK    OTH OBJ      FIX              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W NONE
   52.2  112916 05998        10/21/1999   5 1P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W INJC
   52.3   15510 331           1/19/2001   6 12P FLORENCE-EUGENE                   UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     FIX OBJ      FIX              PDO        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E NONE
  52.38  159397 00813         2/15/1998   1 3P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    CN        CLR       DRY       DAY     ANGL-OTH     TURN             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W INJC
  52.68   62353 00173         1/10/2000   2 5P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        RAIN      WET       DUSK    S-1STOP      REAR             INJ        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     E      W NONE
  52.69  264996 07352        12/14/1996   7 1P FLORENCE-EUGENE                    UN        CLR       DRY       DAY     O-STRGHT     HEAD             FAT        PSNGR CAR   STRGHT     W      E INJC




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page 3 of 3
                                         LTD Route 93 Information




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                        P09042019 
                                                                                                                                                                                          93 Veneta
                                                                                                                                                                             Monday-Saturday
                                                                                                                                                                                         Sunday: No service
                                                                                                                                                                              Domingo: No hay servicio


                                                                                   Fern Ridge
                                                                                    Reservoir




                                                                                                                        GREENHILL
                                                                                                                                            Seneca




                                                                                                                                                                GARFIELD
                                     West Lane                First AM trip                                                                 Station




                                                                                                                                                                           POLK
                                     Shopping                 starts here.
       HWY 126
                              5       Center                                                     HWY 126                                                                                         Eugene Station
                                                          3                                                                                                                       11th           Bay A
     W BROADWAY                           Veneta                                                                             2                       1
                                                                              CENTRAL




                                                                                                                                                                                               OLIVE
                                                                                                                                    WILLOW CREEK

                                                                                                                                                   ARTHUR
                5th




                                                                                                                   RD
                                                                                                                                                                                  13th
                                                 HUSTON




                                                                                                                 OW
            W HUNTER




                                                                                                             CR
                                                                                                                                                                                   Lane County
                       TERRITORIAL




                                                                                                                                                                                   Fairgrounds
                                     4
                                         PERKINS                                                                                                       Eugene Faith Center

                                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                                                    LTD Station
                                                                                                                                    Estación de LTD

                                                                                                                                    LTD Park & Ride

                                                                                                                                    AM Routing
                                                                                                                                    AM Ruta
                                                                                                                                    PM Routing
                                                                                                                                    PM Ruta



      From: Eugene Downtown                                                                            From: Veneta
      To:   Veneta                                                                                     To:   Eugene Downtown
      Name: 93 Veneta                                                                                  Name: 93 Eugene Station

                                                                     ARRIVE                             LEAVE
      LEAVE        11th                    11th Hwy 126 Territorial West Lane                          West Lane Territorial                       Hwy 126                     11th            11th    ARRIVE
      Eugene        at                      at       at     at      Shopping                           Shopping      at                               at                        at              at     Eugene
      Station     Arthur                 Greenhill Huston Perkins    Center                             Center    Perkins                           Huston                   Greenhill        Arthur   Station

        A         2    13      4                                                            5                5                 4                            3                       2             1
      MONDAY-FRIDAY / Lunes a Viernes
AM      --          --                      --             6:42          6:47             6:56              6:56            --                         --                          7:06        7:13      7:25
      6:40        6:44                    6:53             7:02          7:07             7:16              7:23            --                         --                          7:33        7:42      7:55
      7:40        7:44                    7:55             8:04          8:08             8:19              8:25            --                         --                          8:34        8:43      8:55
      9:40        9:44                    9:55            10:04         10:08            10:19             10:25            --                         --                         10:34       10:43     10:55
PM    1:40        1:45                    1:57               --            --             2:11              2:11          2:18                       2:23                          2:31        2:41      2:55
      3:40        3:45                    3:57                 --             --          4:12              4:12          4:19                       4:23                          4:31       4:41       4:55
      5:30        5:36                    5:48                 --             --          6:00              6:04          6:11                       6:16                          6:24       6:33       6:45
      6:30        6:35                    6:44                 --             --          6:55              6:58          7:05                       7:10                          7:17       7:24       7:35
     SATURDAY / Sábado
AM     9:30           9:34                9:45                9:54       9:58            10:06             10:11                    --                      --                    10:20      10:29      10:40
PM     4:50           4:55                5:04                   --           --          5:14             5:19            5:24                      5:29                          5:37       5:44       5:55



                                                                                                                                                                                                                  67
Route 93 Bus Ridership West of Green Hill Road
Average Daily Ridership (Collected throughout May 2011)

           Stop ID            average_ons average_offs average_counts latitude    longitude
            9090                         0            1              2 44.0517774 123.2080752
            9003                         0            0              0 44.0518852 123.3514645
            9004                         0            0              0 44.0512119 123.3546419
            9012                        42           42             85 44.055224 123.3529212
            9017                         0            0              0 44.052628 123.3306146
            9019                         4            0              4 44.043189 123.3517239
            9091                         1            0              2 44.0519671 123.2093679
            9092                         0            1              1 44.0532398 123.2446693
            9093                         1            0              1 44.0530786 123.2447338
            9096                         0            1              1 44.0527698 123.2916291
            9097                         0            0              0 44.0525651 123.2921831
            9098                         0            9              9 44.0527891 123.3181665
            9099                         7            0              8 44.0526283 123.3179971
            9100                         0            0              0 44.0519041 123.3302391
            9101                         0            0              0 44.048325 123.3302868
            9102                         0            0              1 44.0450484 123.3303304
            9103                         0            0              0 44.0408613 123.3302639
            9104                         0            0              0 44.0372617 123.3302581
            9105                         1            0              2 44.0371465 123.3418873
            9106                         4            0              5 44.0371225 123.3482331
            9107                         3            0              3 44.0375141 123.352275
            9108                         5            0              6 44.041819 123.3519051
            9109                         3            1              4 44.0454782 123.3515482
            9110                         0            0              0    44.04774 123.3514884
            9113                         6            0              6 44.0502624 123.3560639
            9155                         1            0              1 44.0393123 123.3521634
            9217                         1            2              3 44.0485557 123.3516069
            9219                         3           10             14 44.0432223 123.3519598
            9220                         2            5              8 44.0414283 123.3521199
            9222                         1            2              3 44.0377135 123.352433
            9225                         0            0              1 44.037629 123.3300086
            9227                         0            0              0 44.0451084 123.3302326
            9228                         0            0              0 44.0482118 123.3302823
            9229                         0            0              1 44.0518683 123.330223
            9231                         1            4              5 44.0370583 123.3477721
            9232                         0            1              1 44.0370919 123.3419288
            9193                         1            3              4 44.0488117 123.3540573
            9194                         4            0              4 44.0489112 123.3542374
            9195                         0            0              1 44.051284 123.3542087
            9198                         2           11             13 44.0492308 123.356177
            9199                         0            0              0 44.0518915 123.3516315
            9196                         9            0              9 44.0512342 123.3520435
            9197                         3           10             14 44.051283 123.3522525

total: average daily counts            105            103         222
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   platform           direct
        Route                        93                        Route Profile for Fall '09 and Fall '10                                                                                                                                                                             hour per         operator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      peak hour    revenue              cost
                   WEEKDAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               factor   hour ratio        per hour        $ 73.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Avg. fare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3333       1.34      (FY 09-10)          $   0.64
                                                                      Survey date range: 10/3/09 - 11/1/09 and 10/2/10 - 10/31/10
                              OUTBOUND                                                                      INBOUND                                                                                                                  2009       2010                                    2010
 Trip                           Fall 2009         Fall 2010        Fall 2010                                Fall 2009       Fall 2010        Fall 2010        Round Trp   Round Trp              Total       Total               Produc-       Produc-                                           Trip Cost
Descr                           Average           Average            Trip                                   Average         Average            Trip            Fall '09    Fall '10             Fall '09    Fall '10               tivity        tivity        Add Schd Hrs       Total          (schd hrs
 for                              Daily             Daily          Revenue                                    Daily           Daily          Revenue            Total       Total              Revenue     Revenue              (brdings /    (brdings /         for Peak or      Sched         x operator Net Cost per
Graph   Trip Start Trip End    Boardings         Boardings          Hours            Trip Start Trip End   Boardings       Boardings          Hours           Boardings   Boardings             Hours       Hours                 rev hr)       rev hr)            Xtra L.O.       Hrs            cost /hr)     Brding


6:42      6:42      6:56                12          13              0.23               6:56      7:25              11         15              0.48               23          28                 0.75        0.72                     30.7       39.1                              0.96          $ 70.10             $   1.86
6:40      6:40      7:16                14          21              0.60               7:25      7:55              10         16              0.50               24          37                 1.12        1.10                     21.4       33.6                              1.47          $107.60             $   2.27
7:40      7:40      8:19                16          17              0.65               8:25      8:55              11         14              0.50               27          31                 1.15        1.15                     23.5       27.0                              1.54          $112.49             $   2.99
9:40      9:40     10:19                18          25              0.65              10:25     10:55              14         25              0.50               32          50                 1.18        1.15                     27.1       43.5                              1.54          $112.49             $   1.61
13:40    13:40     14:08                27          31              0.47              14:13     14:55              21         20              0.70               48          51                 1.18        1.17                     40.7       43.7                              1.56          $114.12             $   1.60
15:40    15:40     16:09                28          27              0.48              16:13     16:55              16         21              0.70               44          48                 1.18        1.18                     37.3       40.6                              1.59          $115.75             $   1.77
17:30    17:30     18:00                32          45              0.50              18:04     18:45              6          10              0.68               38          55                 1.18        1.18                     32.2       46.5                              1.59          $115.75             $   1.46
18:30    18:30     18:55                15          24              0.42              18:58     19:35              7          8               0.62               22          32                 1.03        1.03                     21.4       31.0                              1.38          $101.08             $   2.52

                              162                   203      4.00                                           96       129                      4.68       258       332                          8.78      8.68      29.4                        38.2                              11.64         $           849     $   1.92
        # of current round trips                 % chg from previous year                           % chg from previous year                      % chg from previous year                      % chg from previous year                     avg. productiv. rural category:                                  rev hr / schd hr
          8.0                                     25.3%                                                             34.4%                                         28.7%                                    -1.1%                                27.4                                                                    74.6%


                                                  Round Trp        Produc-
                                                                                                           Average Fall '10 Weekday Boardings and Productivity by Trip -- Route 93
         60                                       Fall '10         tivity
                                                  Total            (brdings / rev hr)                                                                                                                                                                  55
                                                  Boardings
                                                                                                                                        50                                 51
         50                                                                                                                                                                                                    48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         46.5
                                                                                                                                                       43.5                                43 7
                                                                                                                                                                                           43.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40.6
                                      39.1
         40                                                   37
                                                                              33.6
                                                                                                    31                                                                                                                                                                                     32                31.0
         30           28                                                                                           27.0


         20



         10



           0
                              6:42




                                                                     6:40




                                                                                                           7:40




                                                                                                                                               9:40




                                                                                                                                                                                  13:40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15:40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17:30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18:30
                                                                                                                               Outbound Start Time for Round Trip (except as noted)




                                                                                                                   Average Weekday Boardings by Trip -- Fall '09 vs. Fall '10 -- Route 93
                                     Round Trp        Round Trp
                                     Fall '09         Fall '10
                                     Total            Total
                                     Boardings        Boardings
            60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    55

            50                                                                                                                                         50                                 51
                                                                                                                                                                                          48                                    48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                44
            40                                                                37                                                                                                                                                                                    38
                                                                                                                                                       32
                                                                                                                   31                                                                                                                                                                                   32
            30
                                        28                                                                         27

                                        23                                    24                                                                                                                                                                                                                        22
            20

            10

               0
                                 6:42




                                                                       6:40




                                                                                                            7:40




                                                                                                                                                9:40




                                                                                                                                                                                  13:40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15:40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17:30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18:30
                                                                                                                               Outbound Start Time for Round Trip (except as noted)
                           APPENDIX C. HIGHWAY 126 FERN RIDGE CORRIDOR PLAN




Appendix C. Technical Memorandum #7, Highway 126 Fern Ridge
Corridor Plan­ Purpose, Needs, Goal, and Objectives
                            TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM #7
    TO:                 Project  Management  Team  
                          
    FROM:               Scott  Mansur,  P.E.,  P.T.O.E.,  DKS  Associates  
                        Peter  Coffey,  P.E.,  DKS  Associates  
                        Brad  Coy,  E.I.T.,  DKS  Associates  
                          
    DATE:               January  11,  2012  
                          
    SUBJECT:            Highway  126  Fern  Ridge  Corridor  Plan:  Purpose,  Needs,  
                         Goals,  and  Objectives                                                                           P09042-019  
      




    This  memorandum  documents  the  draft  Problem  Statement  as  well  as  the  Purpose,  Needs,  Goals,  
    and  Objectives  (PNGO)  for  the  Highway  126  Fern  Ridge  Corridor  Plan,  which  will  identify  
    improvement  needs  and  develop  improvement  alternatives  on  the  OR  126W  corridor  between  the  
    cities  of  Eugene  and  Veneta.  PNGO  is  a  requirement  for  future  National  Environmental  Policy  Act  
    (NEPA)  documentation  and  compliance.  The  PNGO  documentation  is  necessary  to  apply  for  future  
    permits  that  may  be  required.  Although  the  current  corridor  plan  is  not  intended  to  provide  the  full  
    NEPA  document  that  will  be  required  in  the  future,  all  work  has  been  coordinated  with  the  NEPA  
    process  in  order  to  utilize  this  work  to  the  greatest  extent  possible  for  future  environmental  
    requirements.  

    The  draft  PNGO  was  developed  through  a  collaborative  process  with  the  Project  Management  Team  
    (PMT).  Preliminary  PNGO  were  created  by  the  project  team  and  modified  after  discussion  with  the  
    PMT.  The  draft  PNGO  will  also  be  reviewed  and  modified  based  on  feedback  from  the  public.  The  
    desired  outcome  of  this  PNGO  process  will  be,  after  evaluation  of  a  range  of  potential  actions  and  
    alternatives,  a  set  of  preferred  improvements  to  address  the  operational  and  safety  issues  in  the  
    study  area.  


    Problem Statement
    Highway  126  West  between  Eugene  and  Veneta  is  a  two-lane  highway  that  has  existing  multi-modal,  
    safety,  and  operational  needs  that  are  expected  to  worsen  over  time.  The  highway  provides  an  
    important  regional  connection  for  commuters,  freight,  residents  and  tourists  traveling  between  the  two  
    cities  and  to  the  Oregon  Coast.  However,  the  highway  travels  through  an  environmentally  sensitive  area  
    and  has  limited  connectivity  and  available  right-of-way  due  to  the  adjacent  railroad  tracks  and  the  Fern  
    Ridge  Reservoir.  The  Oregon  Department  of  Transportation  is  conducting  the  Highway  126:  Fern  Ridge  


_____________________________
117 Commercial Street NE
Suite 310
Salem, Oregon 97301

(503) 391-8773
(503) 391-8701 fax
www.dksassociates.com
                                                                                      Highway  126  Fern  Ridge  Corridor  Plan  ­  
                                                                                        Purpose,  Needs,  Goals,  and  Objectives  
                                                                                                                  January  11,  2012  
                                                                                                                          Page  2  of  5  

Corridor  Plan  to  identify  and  evaluate  a  range  of  alternatives  that  would  improve  the  highway's  safety  
and  function  in  order  to  meet  safety  and  mobility  needs  for  all  transportation  system  users.    

Purpose
The  purpose  of  the  OR  126W  Fern  Ridge  Corridor  Plan  is  to:  
        ·    Develop  a  transportation  facility  plan  
        ·    Address  multi-modal  safety  and  operational  problems  
        ·    Identify  potential  facility  improvement  options  

Need
The  need  for  the  OR  126W  Fern  Ridge  Corridor  Plan  is  to  more  thoroughly  identify  and  evaluate  the  
existing  safety  and  operational  functions  that  must  be  addressed  on  OR  126W  corridor  between  the  
cities  of  Eugene  and  Veneta.  These  functions  include:  

      Safety  
        ·    Overall  crash  rate  higher  than  other  similar  facilities  throughout  the  state  
        ·    On  average  2  fatalities  or  debilitating  injuries  per  year  
        ·    Emergency  response  times  impacted  during  incidents  
        ·    Increased  number  of  collisions  in  areas  where  there  is  a  higher  density  of  access  points  to  
             properties,  businesses  and  public  lands        
        ·    Travel  speeds  exceed  posted  speeds  by  more  than  5  mph.  

      Operations  
        ·    Serves  14,450  average  annual  daily  vehicle  trips  
        ·    Summer  usage  increases  to  approximately  18,000  daily  vehicle  trips  
        ·    Mix  of  roadway  users:  local,  commuter,  freight  and  tourist  
        ·    Accommodate  all  modes  
        ·    Provides  limited  opportunities  for  passing  


Draft Goals and Objectives
Specific  transportation  goals  were  developed  for  the  OR  126W  study  corridor  and  address  the  areas  
of  transportation,  environmental,    social  and  economic,  and  community  values.  These  goals  are  
identified  below  along  with  associated  objectives.  

Goal 1: Transportation
Provide  a  multi-modal  transportation  system  from  Veneta  to  Eugene  to  meet  existing  and  future  
safety  and  mobility  needs  for  all  transportation  system  users  

        Objective  A.     Improve  safety  for  pedestrians,  bicyclists,  motor  vehicles,  freight  and  transit  
        Objective  B.     Encourage  use  of  alternative  transportation  modes  
        Objective  C.     Maintain/enhance  motor  vehicle/freight  mobility  and  traffic  flow  
        Objective  D.     Support  freight  mobility  along  the  corridor  
                                                                                    Highway  126  Fern  Ridge  Corridor  Plan  ­  
                                                                                      Purpose,  Needs,  Goals,  and  Objectives  
                                                                                                                January  11,  2012  
                                                                                                                        Page  3  of  5  

      Objective  E.     Improve  safety  and  efficiency  at  railroad  crossings  
      Objective  F.     Avoid  or  minimize  impacts  to  the  railroad  
      Objective  G.     Improve  reliability  for  emergency  vehicles  
      Objective  H.     Provide  a  facility  that  meets  future  growth  in  the  corridor  
      Objective  I.     Where  appropriate  support  opportunities  in  the  corridor  for  future  rail  transit  
                          service  

Goal 2: Environmental
Avoid  or  minimize  the  impacts  to  local  environmental  and  community  resources  while  incorporating  
opportunities  to  enhance  those  resources  

      Objective  A.   Avoid  or  minimize  adverse  impacts  to  local  environmental,  visual  and  community  
                        resources  
      Objective  B.   Support/seek  opportunities  for  enhancements  to  local  environmental  and  
                        community  resources  

Goal 3: Social and Economic
Support  the  economic  viability  of  the  region  including  industrial,  commercial,  recreational  and  
tourist  activities;  protect  the  livability  and  integrity  of  the  residential  areas;  provide  a  financially  
viable  project  

      Objective  A.   Support  and  enhance  multi-modal  access  for  the  residential,  commercial,  
                                     recreational  and  tourist  areas  
      Objective  B.   Improve  freight  movement  throughout  the  corridor  
      Objective  C.   Enhance  transportation  facilities  which  are  accessible  to  all  members  of  the  
                                     community  
      Objective  D.   Support  adopted  economic  plans  
      Objective  E.   Minimize  capital  cost  while  meeting  project  objectives  
      Objective  F.   Minimize  disruption  to  the  community  resulting  from  highway  construction  and  
                                     operation  
      Objective  G.   Maximize  the  cost  effectiveness  of  transportation  system  investments  
      Objective  H.   Minimize  impacts  to  private  properties  and  farmland  
      Objective  I.            Support  rail  related  freight  opportunities  for  Veneta's  industrial  areas    



Goal 4: Community Values
Be  consistent  with  the  adopted  long  term  goals  and  policies  of  the  community  and  the  region  

      Objective  A.   Support  community/regional  facilities  
      Objective  B.   Consistent  with  adopted  state,  county,  regional  and  local  Transportation  System  
                        Plans  and  policies  
                                                                                     Highway  126  Fern  Ridge  Corridor  Plan  ­  
                                                                                       Purpose,  Needs,  Goals,  and  Objectives  
                                                                                                                 January  11,  2012  
                                                                                                                         Page  4  of  5  

Draft Criteria
Draft  criteria  were  prepared  for  use  in  evaluating  and  comparing  improvement  alternatives.  These  
criteria  will  help  ensure  the  greatest  consistency  between  the  PNGO  and  the  recommended  
improvement  alternative(s)  for  the  OR  126W  study  corridor.  

      Transportation  
        ·   Reduce  potential  conflict  points  such  as  intersections  and  driveways  
        ·   Improve  pedestrian  safety  and  accessibility  
        ·   Improve  bicycle  safety  and  accessibility  
        ·   Improve  overall  traffic  safety  
        ·   Improve  east/west  vehicle  capacity  
        ·   Improve  mobility  along  corridor,  including  freight  
        ·   Support  public  transit  service  
        ·   Improve  emergency  vehicle  response  time    
        ·   Minimize  impacts  to  the  railroad  for  freight  movements  
        ·   Strive  to  meet  ODOT  mobility  standards    
        ·   Minimize  impacts  to  the  railroad  that  limit  opportunities  for  future    rail  transit  

      Environmental  
        ·   Avoid  or  minimize  adverse  permanent  and  temporaryimpacts  to  Fern  Ridge  Lake  
        ·   Avoid  or  minimize  adverse  permanent  and  temporary  impacts  to  other  environmentally  
            sensitive  natural  resource  areas  
        ·   Avoid  or  minimize  adverse  permanent  and  temporary  impacts  to  identified  historical  
            resources.  
        ·   Avoid  or  minimize  adverse  permanent  and  temporary  impacts  to  cultural  resources  
        ·   Avoid  or  minimize  adverse  permanent  and  temporary  impacts  to  visual  resources  
        ·     Provide,  maintain,  and  improve  access  to  existing  parkland  and  recreational  facilities,  
            where  practicable  
        ·   Be  consistent  with  ODFW  Fern  Ridge  Wildlife  Area  Plan  

      Social  and  Economic  
        ·   Support  community  livability  by  improving  multi-modal  access  to  residential  areas  
        ·   Support  community  livability  and  economics  by  improving  multi-modal  access  to  
            commercial  areas  
        ·   Support  community  livability  and  economics  by  improving  multi-modal  access  to  
            recreational/tourist  areas  
        ·   Support  area  economic  vitality  by  improving  roadway  geometrics  for  freight  movements  
        ·   Provide  transportation  facilities  which  are  accessible  to  all  community  members  and  users    
        ·   Consistent  with  City  of  Veneta  Economic  Development  Strategic  Plan  
        ·   Consistent  with  Lane  County  Regional  Economic  Development  Strategies  
        ·   Minimize  impacts  to  properties  along  the  corridor  
        ·   Support  rail  opportunities  for  Veneta's  industrial  areas  
                                                                              Highway  126  Fern  Ridge  Corridor  Plan  ­  
                                                                                Purpose,  Needs,  Goals,  and  Objectives  
                                                                                                          January  11,  2012  
                                                                                                                  Page  5  of  5  

      Community  Values  
       ·    Improve  access  opportunities  to  Fern  Ridge  Lake  along  the  corridor  
       ·    Improve  access  to  Perkins  Peninsula  County  Park  
       ·    Be  consistent  with  Oregon  Highway  Plan  
       ·    Be  consistent  with  Oregon  Bicycle  and  Pedestrian  Plan  
       ·    Be  consistent  with  Lane  County  Transportation  System  Plan  
       ·    Be  consistent  with  Fern  Ridge  Trail  System:    Visions  and  Strategies  
       ·    Be  consistent  with  City  of  Veneta  Comprehensive  Plan  
       ·    Compliant  with  Lane  County  Land  Use  Code  
       ·    Support  regional  bicycle/pedestrian  plans  
       ·    Support  planned  parkland  and  recreational  facilities,  where  practicable  
       ·    Be  consistent  with  USACE  Fern  Ridge  Operational  Management  Plan  
              
                            APPENDIX D. HIGHWAY 126 FERN RIDGE CORRIDOR PLAN




Appendix D. Technical Memorandum #8, Highway 126 Fern Ridge
Corridor Plan­ Future Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis (DKS,
2011)
                          TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM #8
    TO:                Project Management Team 
                        
    FROM:              Scott Mansur, P.E., P.T.O.E., DKS Associates 
                       Peter Coffey, P.E., DKS Associates 
                       Brad Coy, E.I.T., DKS Associates 
                        
    DATE:              December 7, 2011 
                        
    SUBJECT:           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Future Travel Forecasts 
                       and Needs Analysis                                               P09042019007 
     




    This memorandum documents future travel forecasts and needs (including major transportation 
    constraints and issues) for the OR 126W corridor between Veneta and Eugene, Oregon, and is part 
    of the OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan. Figure 1 shows the project study area, which includes OR 
    126W and nearby parallel facilities (including Cantrell Road and Perkins Road to the south). The 
    sections of this memorandum document roadway network deficiencies, environmental constraints, 
    future 2035 traffic operations, access management, transit needs, and pedestrian and bicycle 
    deficiencies. 


    Roadway Network Deficiencies
    OR 126W is managed by the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) and is an important 
    corridor for two main reasons. First, it connects Veneta and Eugene, and second, it is part of the 
    larger OR 126W corridor that connects Eugene to the Oregon coast. The most significant constraints 
    to the roadway network are the Fern Ridge Reservoir and the Coos Bay Rail Line (CBRL). Needs and 
    deficiencies along the corridor were addressed, including parallel facilities and connectivity, 
    livability, access spacing, traffic signal spacing, freight needs, and atgrade railroad crossings. 

    Parallel Facilities and Connectivity
    The corridor lacks good parallel facilities (i.e., eastwest connection) between Eugene and Veneta. 
    Having an optional parallel route to OR 126W would provide relief to the area. The current roadway 
    to the north of the reservoir (Clear Lake Road) is out of direction and does not allow for 
    intermediate connectivity due to the location of the reservoir. The roadway network to the south 
    can provide some connection but requires multiple turns and includes sections that are not paved 
    and that experience flooding during certain times of the year (therefore, this southern network is 
    currently unreliable). Some key benefits of the roadways to the south are their proximity to OR 
    126W and the City of Veneta, and connectivity at Central Road and Huston Road. 


_____________________________
117 Commercial Street NE, Suite 310
Salem, Oregon 97301
(503) 391-8773 | (503) 391-8701 fax
www.dksassociates.com
                 STUDY AREA
EN R




                                                                                                          CONRAD
       D




                                                                                              CHERYL LN
                                                                                                                          JEANS RD       ZUMWALT
                                                                                                                                         PARK




                                                                          WINTER LN
  HORN RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                                           ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                                         CHUKAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OAK HILL PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FISHER RD
         E        RD
     TTL
   SU
                                                                                            WIGGINS
                                           VENETA                                                                                                     PERKINS PENINSULA
                                                                                                                                                            PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GOBLE LN
                                                JEANS RD
                                                                                      WILDWOOD RD                                                                          Boat Ramp                                                                                JUDY
                                                                  Public Works                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                126
                                                                                                                                   126
                    BROADWAY                    AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KEN NIELSEN RD                                                                                            ED CONE BLV




                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                 Veneta Elementary       Veneta Wellhead
                          5TH ST




                                                                                                                                                        RAL R
                 8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LA PORTE DR
                                            Fire Station                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OAK HILL                      CROW RD
       10TH ST




                                              Library                                INSET




                                                                                                                                                       CENT
                                                                                HUSTON RD




                                                BOLTON RD          JOSEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Coyote Creek
                 Oregon Dept.                                                                                                                                                                     Canoe Trailhead
                   Of Forestry CHENEY DR                                                                                                                                    CANTRELL RD                                                                                          CANTRELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W RD
                  Fire Station
                                                                                                                                             Fire Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUGENE




                                                                                                                                                                                                      HALDERSON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CRO
                                                                                                                                     PERKINS RD
                                                                                            BIGGS RD
                              TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VERA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MCTAVI




                                                                                                                                                                                       OAK KNOLL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HAZEL DELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GIRL SCOUT RD



                          1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ED
                                                OR 126W Fern    Ridge Corridor Plan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RD
                                                          FLECK RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FEATHER DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BENSON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MB
                                                                                                                                   Central
                                                         MUIRLAND DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BUSHYTAIL LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DUKHOBAR
                                                                                                                                                              PICKENS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TI
                                                                                                                                   Grange
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CLAY DR
                 Legend




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WILDWOOD RD
                                                                                                                                                                                       VENETA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELLMAKER
                                                 Study Intersection                                                               Railroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 126
                                                 Place of Interest                                                                Urban Growth Boundary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HUSTON RD


                                                 Major Arterial                                                                   City Limit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ROAD
                                                 Minor Arterial
                                                                                                                                  Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PRIVATE
                                                 Collector                                                                                                                                                                                           TIDBALL LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                Veneta
                                                 Local                                                                                                                                         Wellhead



                                                                                                                                                                                             E HUNTER RD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C   HR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CO
                                                                                      OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Future 
                                                                                            Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis
                                                                                                              December 7, 2011
                                                                                                                   Page 3 of 14

The lack of good parallel routes and connectivity of those routes to OR 126W also impacts 
emergency response and incident management. If there is a significant incident (e.g., collision that 
blocks one or both travel lanes), then it is difficult to get first responders to the site. In addition, 
using the roadways to the south would require roadway classification changes by the County 
because Perkins Road is a Rural Minor Collector and Cantrell Road is only a Rural Local Road. 

Access Spacing
ODOT's access spacing standards are identified in the 1999 Oregon Highway Plan.1 For OR 126W, 
which is classified as a Statewide Highway, the applicable spacing standard is 1,320 feet (from 
center of access to center of access on the same side of the roadway ) due to the 55 miles per hour 
(mph) posted speed limit. 

Figure 2 shows the access locations along the OR 126W study corridor. In addition, Table 1 lists the 
access conditions for the OR 126W study corridor for various segments of the study corridor. For 
the westernmost section of the study corridor (i.e., the 0.59 miles between Huston Road and 
Ellmaker Road), there are multiple, closely spaced driveways. The majority of these driveways 
provide access to businesses, with some having modest p.m. peak hour volumes. All of these 
driveways were included in the intersection operations analysis documented previously. The 
remaining section of corridor (i.e., the 5.33 miles between Ellmaker Road and Green Hill Road) is 
more rural and has fewer accesses, with most driveways providing access to residences. 

                                                                  Table 1: OR 126W Accesses

                                                       Side of                                Accessesa
    Segment
                                                        Road            Streets   Driveways       Total    Average Spacing
    Huston Rd to Ellmaker Rd                              North           0          13            13            220
     (0.59 mi.)
                                                         South            0           0            0              -
    Ellmaker Rd to Central Rd                             North           2           0            2            2,320
      (1.32 mi.)
                                                         South            0           1            1            3,480
    Central Rd to Fisher Rd                               North           0           8            8            1,380
     (2.35 mi.)
                                                         South            0           1            1            6,200
    Fisher Rd to Green Hill Rd                            North           3           1            4            1,970
      (1.87 mi.)
                                                         South            1           5            6            1,410
    Entire Study Corridor                                North            8b         22           30b           1,040
     (6.13 mi.)                                                            b                        b
                                                         South            2           7            9            3,240
    a
        Accesses (both public and private) counted separately for north and south sides of OR 126W.
    b
        The four intermediate streets (i.e., Ellmaker Road, the Perkins Peninsula County Park access, and Fisher Road on
        the north and Central Road on the south) were added to these totals because they were not otherwise accounted for.
 


                                                            
1
     1999 Oregon Highway Plan, Appendix C, Table 14; or Table 1 in OAR 7340510115 
                                                                                                                                                West Corridor Limit
                                                                                                                                                       HUSTON                                         JE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          S


                                                                               West Corridor Limit


                                                                                                                                                                                        WILDWOOD




                                                                     INSET A
                                                                                                            HUSTON




                                                                                                                                                         Below
                                                                                                                                                                                           ELLMAKER




                                                                                                                                                       INSET A
                                                                                                                                                            See
                                                                                                                                                                                        510
                                                                                                      660




                                                                                                                                                                                    413
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                      480
                                                                                                                                                                           SHA
                                                                                                                                                                               DY




                                                                                                      90                                                 620
                                                                                                      70
                                                                                                                                                                                 RES
                                                                                                                                                                                   T




                                                                                                  280
                                                                                                                                                CEN                                171
                                                                                                                                                   TRA                                0
                                                                                                                                                      L
                                                                                                 150




                                                                                                              WILDWOOD
                                                                                                 110

                                                                                                 190
                                                                                                                                                                       HWY 126




                                                                                                 250


                                                                                                 110




                                                            LEGEND
                                                                                                210


                                                                                                                                                                                 947
                                                                                                280                                                                                 0

                                                                                                90




               - Driveway Access Location
               - Roadway Access Location
                                                                                                140
                                                                                                            ELLMAKER




           000 - Distance (feet) Between Access Locations
                                                                                                                                                                           168
NO SCALE                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                   FISHER
                                                                                                                                                    Below
                                                                                                                                                  INSET B
                                                                                                                                                       See




                                                                                                                         CANTRELL




                                                                     INSET B




                                                                                                                                                                                 150
                                                                                                                                                                                    0


                                                                                                160
                                                                                                                                                         KEN NIELSEN




                                                                                                130
                                                                                                                                                                                   252
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                 230


                                                                                                 150
                                                                                                                                                                                          670
                                                                                                  100
                                                                                                   70
                                                                                                                                                                                             122
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                  KEN NIELSEN




                                                                                                                                                               960
                                                                                                      400
                                                                                                                                                          170
                                                                                                            FISHER          OAK HILL
                                                                                                                                                                                  GOBLE




                                                                                                                                                                                  620

                                                                                                                                                                             850
                                                                                                                                       CR
                                                                                                                                         O
                                                                                                                                            W     60
                                                                                                                                                                       128
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                100
                                                                                                                                                                                 GREEN HILL
                                                                                                                                    East Corridor Limit
                                                            Figure
                                                            2
                              ACCESS LOCATIONS
                                                                       OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Future 
                                                                             Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis
                                                                                               December 7, 2011
                                                                                                    Page 5 of 14

Traffic Signal Spacing
The recommended traffic signal spacing is onequarter mile or greater between adjacent signals. 
The study corridor is approximately six miles long, and the only signalized intersection is at Green 
Hill Road, which is on the eastern end of the study corridor. The closest signal to the east of the 
study corridor is at Terry Street, which is located approximately one mile east of Green Hill Road. 
On the west end of the study area, the closest traffic signal is just over one mile west of Huston 
Road at the Territorial Road intersection. If traffic signals are identified as the future improvement 
alternatives for any of the study intersections, then any adjacent signals should meet the 
recommended onequartermile spacing. 

Freight Needs
OR 126W is an important Freight Route connecting the SpringfieldEugene area to the Oregon 
coast. As traffic volumes increase, congestion will increase, which will negatively impact freight 
travel time reliability through the corridor. Any improvements along OR 126W should also take into 
account trucking needs. One way that ODOT accommodates improved trucking conditions is 
through the use of a more stringent mobility standard. If OR 126W was not a Freight Route, then 
the applicable mobility standard for the highway would be a v/c ratio of 0.75. However, because it 
is a freight route, the applicable standard is a v/c ratio of 0.70 (additional discussion of mobility 
standards is provided later in this memorandum). 

At-Grade Railroad Crossings
The Coos Bay Rail Line (CBRL) runs parallel to OR 126W for the majority of the study area. East of 
Richmond Street, the railroad slight shifts course to the northeast and OR 126W diverges from and 
then passes over the railroad. There has not been any rail activity in the recent past, but rail activity 
will be resumed the near future. Another future railroadrelated consideration is that it is ODOT 
Rail's practice to not allow any new atgrade railroad crossings. 

For the study area segment between Huston Road and Richmond Street (approximately 4.5 miles), 
the railroad is less than 75 feet south of the highway. Along this stretch, there are five atgrade 
railroad crossings on the side streets that intersect OR 126W. Due to the proximity between OR 
126W and the railroad tracks, there is little room for vehicle queuing. In addition, because the 
railroad tracks are along a raised earthwork berm, they have higher elevation than OR 126W. To 
prevent drivers of low clearance vehicles becoming caught on the tracks, the roadway crossing 
surface should be at the same plane as the top of the railroad rails for a distance of 2 feet outside 
the rails. In addition, the roadway surface should not be more than 3 inches higher or lower than 
the top of the nearest rail at a point 30 feet from the rail.2 All five of the crossings have a change in 
vertical elevation that exceeds the current standards. Therefore, improvements will be needed to 
bring the roadway sections adjacent to the atgrade railroad crossings into compliance with 
recommended standards. 


                                                            
2
 Geometric Design of Highways and Streets, 2004, American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
(AASHTO), page 732.
                                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Future 
                                                                  Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis
                                                                                    December 7, 2011
                                                                                         Page 6 of 14

Environmental Constraints
The primary environmental constraints for the OR 126W corridor include Fern Ridge Lake and the 
nearby sensitive wetland areas and related habitat. Figure 3 shows the environmental constraints 
along the study corridor. The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife manages the Fern Ridge 
Wildlife Area, and OR 126 crosses through wildlife management units between Fisher and Huston 
Roads. Fern Ridge is a destination for migratory birds. Potential jurisdictional wetlands and water 
resources are adjacent to OR 126W, Perkins Road, and Cantrell Road throughout the study corridor. 
Designated rare plant critical habitat for the Willamette daisy is located at the eastern terminus of 
the project area and along OR 126W near the Fisher Road intersection. In addition, OR 126W is 
within the 100year flood zone for Fern Ridge Lake, and the zone extends south and crosses 
portions of Cantrell and Perkins Roads. 

Perkins Peninsula Park is located on the north side of the highway at its intersection with Central 
Road. Section 4(f) of the USDOT Act of 1966 includes provisions for protecting public park and 
recreation lands, wildlife and waterfowl refuges, and historic sites. Potential historic properties 
(structures 45 years or older) were identified at various locations in the study corridor. The greatest 
concentration of these is along Perkins and Central Roads.  

In terms of known hazardous materials, a potential leaking underground storage tank (LUST) is 
present at an old service station location at the southwest corner of OR 126W and Green Hill Road. 
At the intersection of OR 126W and Ellmaker Road, there is suspected soil contamination from 
activities at a former transmission shop. Other known hazmat sites in the general area are located 
outside the study corridor. A Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) substation is located south of 
the highway adjacent to Ken Nielsen Road. Consequently, BPA transmission lines cross the highway 
near this location and, to the south, cross Cantrell Road at two locations. 

Rightofway acquisition and expansion of transportation facilities on adjacent rural lands are 
subject to the provisions of Lane County Code Chapter 16. Proposed transportation facilities must 
comply with state land use law, the County Rural Comprehensive Plan, and the applicable zoning 
classification. To ensure compliance with Lane County Code requirements, Lane County planning 
must be consulted to verify if proposed improvements are permitted or will require a more 
extensive regulatory process. 

Existing OR 126W rightofway width varies along the corridor, ranging from approximately 75 feet 
to over 100 feet in some locations. The highway rightofway is narrowest between Central Road 
and Huston Road, where it maintains a more consistent width of approximately 75 feet. 
                                                                                              CONRAD RD




                                                                                                                                                                          JEAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FIR BUTTE RD
                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                              RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HILLAIRE ST
                                                                            TANYA LN




                                                                            CHERYL LN
                                                    LYNETTE LN




                                                                                                                                                 ENGLAND LP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ROYAL AVE
                                     WINTER LN




                                                                                         PROMISE PKWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GENTRY ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OAK HILL CEMETER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                                               ELLMAKER RD
                                                   WIGGINS LN                                                                    VISTA DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fern Ridge Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FISHER RD
                                                                                        VERA LN                                                                DR
                                                                                                                                                  I           NE
                                                                                                                                               RL
                                                                                                                                             BE
                                                                                                                                             M




                                                                                  BUSHYTAIL LN
                                                                                                                                     TI




                                                         2
                                                         %
                                                      WILDWOOD RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GOBLE LN
       2
       %                                                                                HWY 126                     %
                                                                                                                    2                           # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                ## # ###
                                                                                                                                                                                       # ## ## ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JUDY AVE                                                             ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #                          ## ## ## ## #       ## ## ## ## ## ##                                     ## ##                                                                                                                                                                                                  ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                              ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #                                                                        # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #                                                                                                                                                                                    ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                             # # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                              #                                                                                                              ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         126                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W 11TH AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                         # ## ## ## ## ## ## ##                                                         ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##      ##                                                                                                                                          ## ## ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                             # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #    # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##                             # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #                                                                                                                                                            ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Eugene
                              HUSTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 #   # # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #                       # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #                       ##                                  ## #
     Veneta                                      TIDBALL LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              # ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KEN NIELSEN RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          # # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #



E HUNTER RD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %                                                                                                                       # ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        %## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          # ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BONNIE HEIGHTS#RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     # ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     # ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     #    ## ## ##          ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     # ## # ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     # ## # ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ##     # ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ##     # ## #
             DAHLIN DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            # ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            # ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RUTH LN                                                                          #     ## #                 CROW RD
     JOSEE LN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    # ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     # ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ## #


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               # ## #




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OAK HILL DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               # ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #                            # ## ## ## ## ##      # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##
E BOLTON RD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #                            # ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        # ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##                                                                                                                                                           #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    #                                     #                               ## ## ## ##              ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##             # ## #                                                                                                                         #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #   ##                                                                        # ##                 ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##            ## # #                                                                                                                      #
                                                                                                                                 MISTY LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ## #                                  # ## ##                                                  ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##          #                                                                                                    #                       #
     MILO RD                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          # # ## ## #                                      #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    # ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ## ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            # ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##    ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##     #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ## #                     #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                # ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                # ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ## ## ## ## ## ## #       ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##     #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##                  CANTRELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #        ## ## #                                                                                  ## ## ## ## ## ## #          #   ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #        ## ## #                                                                                      # ## ## ## ## #                                ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ## ## #                                                                                                                                                                             # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ##
                                                                                                                                              #                                                                                   # ## ##                                                                                                                                                                                                                   # ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                   ## #                   ##                                  # ##                                                                                # ## ##
                                                                                   ## #      #                                                ## #                                                                               ## ## ##
        CINNABAR LN




                                                                                   ## #    #                                                  ## #                                                                               ## ## #
                                          PERKINS RD                               ## # #                                                     ##                                                                                 ## ## #




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HALDERSON RD
                                                                                         #                                                    ##                                                                                # # ##
                                                        #                               #                                                     #                                                                                     ##
                                                        ## #                           #                                          ##          #                                     #
                                                                                                                                 MILLER RD




                                                        ## #                          #                                           ##          # #                                   #                       #
                                                        ## #                          #                                           ##          # #                                   #                      #
                                                                                    ## #                                                      ## ##                                 #                  #
                                                                 BIGGS RD




                                                                                                                                  ## ## ## ## ## ##                                 #                 #
                                                                                                                                  ## ## ## ## #                                    #
                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                                     LR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HAZEL DELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                  RA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                NT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OW
                                                                                                                                                                                              CE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WILLOW CREEK RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DUKHOBAR RD
                                                                                                                  PRIVATE ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                   FLECK RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                PICKENS RD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OAKD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALE D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BENSON RD
 0                    1,000                      2,000                                       4,000 Feet




 LEGEND                                                                                                    Railroad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Figure                          3
                                   Road                                                                    OR 126 Study Corridor                                                                         Potential Historic Resource                                                              BPA Tower                                                                            Fender's blue butterfly Critical Habitat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BPA Transmission Line                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ENVIRONMENTAL CONSTRAINTS
                                   Tax Lot                                                                 Parallel Facility Study Corridor                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                            %              Potential HazMat Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                # ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kincaid's lupine Critical Habitat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                # ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                # ## ## ## ## #   Potential Jurisdictional Wetlands
                                   City Boundary                                                           Public Park                                                                                   100-Year Flood Zone (A)                                                # ## ## ## ## #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  & Water Resources                                                                    Willamette daisy Critical Habitat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NO SCALE
                                                                      OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Future 
                                                                            Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis
                                                                                              December 7, 2011
                                                                                                   Page 8 of 14

Future 2035 Traffic Operations
Future 2035 traffic operations were evaluated for the OR 126W study corridor. The evaluation 
included future traffic volume forecasts, intersection operations, turn lane criteria, and twolane 
highway segment analysis.  

Future Traffic Volume Forecasts
Future traffic volumes were estimated for the OR 126W study corridor intersections by applying 
yearly growth rates to the 2011 existing 30th highest hourly volumes. The primary growth rate 
applied to the overall study corridor was 1.5 percent traffic growth per year; however, a 2.3 percent 
yearly growth rate was applied to noncorridor movements at the Green Hill Road intersection due 
to the higher growth estimates in the West Eugene area. Additional details related to the growth 
rate calculations are provided in the appendix. Figure 4 provides the resulting 2035 30th highest 
hour volume estimates assumed for the future traffic operations analysis. 

Intersection Operations
Future 2035 traffic operations were evaluated for the OR 126W study intersections to identify 
potential future capacityrelated intersection deficiencies along the corridor. The analysis was 
performed for 30th highest hour conditions using SynchroTM software, which employs methodology 
from the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual.3 This analysis was performed in a similar manner as was 
done for existing conditions, which are documented previously in Technical Memorandum #2 
(Existing Transportation Conditions).4 The resulting 2035 future volumetocapacity (v/c) ratios for 
the study intersections are listed in Table 2 along with the applicable mobility standards. As shown, 
the majority of the public street intersections do not meet mobility standards, including: 
              OR 126W/Green Hill Road (signalized intersection does not meet standard) 
              OR 126W/Huston Road (minor street does not meet standard)  
              OR 126W/Shady Rest Drive (mainline does not meet standard) 
              OR 126W/Lake Side Drive (mainline does not meet standard) 
              OR 126W/Central Road (mainline and minor street do not meet standard) 
              OR 126W/Fisher Road (mainline and minor street do not meet standard) 
              OR 126W/Richmond Street (mainline does not meet standard) 
              OR 126W/Ken Nielsen Road (mainline does not meet standard) 

These intersections currently meet mobility standards (i.e., under existing 2011 30th highest hour 
conditions), though the signalized OR 126W/Green Hill Road intersection was just below the 
threshold. Due to the increase in volumes (particularly associated with the increased urbanization 
of West Eugene), this intersection is expected to exceed (i.e., not meet) standards. The primary 
reason why future operations at the majority of the other intersections are not expected to meet 
standards is due to the higher mainline traffic volumes, which reduce available acceptable gaps for 
both mainline traffic turning left onto the side streets and side street traffic entering the roadway.
                                                            
3
  2000 Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board, Washington, D.C. 2000. 
4
  ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Existing Transportation Conditions, Draft Technical Memorandum #2 by DKS 
Associates, July 22, 2011.
1. Hwy 126 @ Huston Rd.                                    2. Driveway 1                                                           3. Driveway 2                               4. Driveway 3                                     5. Driveway 4                                                          6. Driveway 5                                7. Driveway 6                                   8. Driveway 7


                   25

                   15
                   5                             RT 25




                                                                                           1
                                                                                           1




                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                          1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                  RT TH LT                                                             RT LT                   RT 1                                     RT LT        RT 0                 RT LT                RT 5                             RT LT                       RT 0                                    RT LT            RT 0                       RT LT             RT 5                           RT LT     RT 5
                                                 TH 895
                                                 LT 195                                                        TH 1115                                               TH 1110                                   TH 1105                                                      TH 1110                                                  TH 1105                                      TH 1105                                  TH 1110

              20 LT                                                                  1 LT                                                              0 LT                             0 LT                                                0 LT                                                                  0 LT                                        1 LT                                             5 LT
             475 TH                                                                560 TH                                                            560 TH                           560 TH                                              560 TH                                                                560 TH                                      560 TH                                           555 TH
                                             LT TH RT
              25 RT
                                             20
                                              5
                                             70




9. Driveway 8                                              10. Driveway 9                                                       11. Driveway 10                                12. Driveway 11                                   13. Driveway 12                                                        14. Driveway 13                              15. Hwy 126 @ Ellmaker Rd.                      16. Hwy 126 @ Shady Rest Dr.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50
                                                                                                                                                         15




                                                                                                                                                                                           15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                       5
                       0




                                                                                       1
                                                                                       1




                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                           5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                       RT LT                     RT 1                                  RT LT                   RT 1                                      RT LT       RT 1                  RT LT               RT 15                            RT LT                RT 15                                           RT LT          RT 0                         RT LT            RT 170                         RT LT    RT 0
                                                 TH 1110                                                       TH 1110                                               TH 1110                                   TH 1080                                               TH 1075                                                        TH 1090                                       TH 1075                                 TH 1215

                0 LT                                                                 0 LT                                                             15 LT                              5 LT                                              20 LT                                                                  1 LT                                       25 LT                                             0 LT
              560 TH                                                               560 TH                                                            545 TH                            540 TH                                             525 TH                                                                530 TH                                      505 TH                                           545 TH




17. Hwy 126 @ Lake Side Dr.                                18.              Hwy 126 @ Central Rd.                               19.              Hwy 126 @ Fisher Rd.          20. Hwy 126 @ Richmond St.                        21. Hwy 126 @ Ken Neilsen Rd.                                          22.   Hwy 126 @ Green Hill Rd.
                                                                                                                                                         155




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   85
                                                                                    5
                                                                                    0
                                                                                    5
                 0
                 0
                 0




                                                                                                              RT 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RT 110
                                                                                                                                                         5




                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                 RT 5                               RT TH LT                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RT TH LT
                RT TH LT                                                                                                                                 RT LT       RT 5                 RT LT                RT 0                                                        TH 1250
                                                 TH 1210                                                      TH 1190                                                                                                                                                                                                               TH 1230
                                                 LT 1                                                         LT 210                                                 TH 1250                                   TH 1265                                                     LT 5                                                     LT 195

               0 LT                                                                 5 LT                                                              60 LT                             0 LT                                              590 TH                                                                 35 LT
             545 TH                                                               525 TH                                                             585 TH                           580 TH                                                0 RT               LT RT                                            560 TH
                                            LT TH RT                                                    LT TH RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                LT TH RT
               0 RT                                                                15 RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5 RT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                        25
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                        95




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                85
                                            0
                                            0
                                            1
                       TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                     JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         00   - Study Intersection                            - Lane Configuration
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FISHER RD
                                                                                                     CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         00 - 30th Highest Hour Traffic Volume
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - Stop Sign




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LT TH RT - Volume Turn Movement
                                                                                       ELLMAKER RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - Traffic Signal                  Left Thru Right



                                           JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                                       GOBLE LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           21
                                                                                                                                                                                                      19          20
                                                           1                               15                              16 17                18
       BROADWAY                           AVE                                                                                                                                                                            KEN NIELSEN RD                                22
              5TH ST




                                                                                     Driveways (#2 - #14)
                                                           HUSTON RD
    8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LA PORTE DR
                                                                                     Numbering from West to East                                                                                                                                                                CROW RD                                                                                                                               Figure         4
                                          BOLTON RD
                                                                                                                                   CENTRAL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FUTURE 2035 30TH HIGHEST HOUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W RD



                                         CHENEY DR                                                                                                                                                                  CANTRELL RD
                                                                                                                                                       CANTRELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TRAFFIC VOLUMES, LANE GEOMETRY,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
                                                                       BIGGS RD




                                                                                                                   PERKINS RD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NO SCALE
                                                                      OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Future 
                                                                            Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis
                                                                                              December 7, 2011
                                                                                                  Page 10 of 14

                             Table 2: Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance
                                              Mobility Standardb               30th Highest Hour (v/c Ratio)c,d
    Intersectiona
                                           Mainline          Side Street          Mainline             Side Street
    Signalized
        (22) OR 126W/Green Hill Rd                    0.80 v/c                                 1.04
    Unsignalized
        (1) OR 126W/Huston Rd              0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.55 (WB-T)           0.83 (NB-LTR)
        (15) OR 126W/Ellmaker Rd           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.67 (WB-T)           0.62 (SB-LR)
        (16) OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr         0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.75 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
        (17) OR 126W/Lake Side Dr          0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.74 (WB-LTR)          0.00 (NB-LTR)
        (18) OR 126W/Central Rd            0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.74 (WB-TR)          1.30 (NB-LTR)
        (19) OR 126W/Fisher Rd             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.78 (WB-TR)          0.98 (SB-LR)
        (20) OR 126W/Richmond St           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.78 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
        (21) OR 126W/Ken Nielsen Rd        0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.78 (WB-LT)          0.01 (NB-LTR)
    Driveways
        (2) OR 126W/Driveway 1             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.69 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
        (3) OR 126W/Driveway 2             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.69 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
        (4) OR 126W/Driveway 3             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.69 (WB-TR)          0.03 (SB-LR)
        (5) OR 126W/Driveway 4             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.69 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
        (6) OR 126W/Driveway 5             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.68 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
        (7) OR 126W/Driveway 6             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.69 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
        (8) OR 126W/Driveway 7             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.69 (WB-TR)          0.06 (SB-LR)
        (9) OR 126W/Driveway 8             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.69 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
        (10) OR 126W/Driveway 9            0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.69 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
        (11) OR 126W/Driveway 10           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.68 (WB-TR)          0.07 (SB-LR)
        (12) OR 126W/Driveway 11           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.68 (WB-TR)          0.12 (SB-LR)
        (13) OR 126W/Driveway 12           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.67 (WB-TR)          0.14 (SB-LR)
        (14) OR 126W/Driveway 13           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.67 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    a
      Numbers correspond with Figure 4.
    b
      Mobility standards apply to full signalized intersections or to worst mainline and side street movements of
      unsignalized intersections and driveways.
    c
      The specific movements are identified in parenthesis. There are four approaches (NB = Northbound, SB =
      Southbound, EB = Eastbound, WB = Westbound) and three movements (L = Left, T = Through, R = Right). When
      approach lanes serve more than one movement (i.e., shared lanes), both movements are listed.
    d
      Bold Shaded values do not meet mobility standards.
 
                                                                                 OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Future 
                                                                                       Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis
                                                                                                         December 7, 2011
                                                                                                             Page 11 of 14

Turn Lane Criteria
For most of its length through the study corridor, OR 126W is a twolane roadway with no turn 
lanes; however, there are multiple intersections where OR 126W has turn lanes. At the remaining 
locations, turn lane criteria were considered to determine whether additional turn lanes are 
recommended. Both leftturn lane and rightturn lane criteria were evaluated using the applicable 
ODOT methodologies identified in the Analysis Procedures Manual (APM).5 

Due to the high peak hour traffic volumes and travel speeds (55 mph) on OR 126W, the ODOT 
criteria indicate that leftturn lanes are needed at movements where volumes exceed 10 left
turning vehicles during the 30th highest hour. Table 3 lists the leftturn lane analysis results for the 
study intersections that do not currently have leftturn lanes. While the 10vehicle threshold is not 
met for any of the study intersections, the ODOT criteria do also indicate that leftturn lanes would 
be beneficial and may be considered at these locations due to the higher travel speeds and traffic 
volumes. 

                  Table 3: 2035 Left-Turn Lane Criteria (Intersections without Left-Turn Lanes)
                                                                      Left-Turn Vehicles
                                                                                               Criteria      Recommended
     Intersection                                     Movement       ODOT
                                                                                Turn Volume     Met?         Storage Length
                                                                    Threshold
     OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr                                EB Left      10            0        Considera               -
                                                                                                         a
     OR 126W/Lake Side Dr                                 EB Left      10            0        Consider                -
                                                                                                         a
     OR 126W/Richmond St                                  EB Left      10            0        Consider                -
                                                                                                         a
     OR 126W/Ken Nielson Rd                              WB Left       10            5        Consider                -
     a
         Through volumes and speeds are sufficiently high that even though there are less than 10 turning vehicles, careful
         consideration be given to installing a left-turn lane due to the increased potential for accidents in the through lanes.
 
Leftturn lane analysis was also performed for the 13 driveways between Huston Road and Ellmaker 
Road and is provided in the appendix. Because two of the driveways (i.e., Driveways 10 and 12, 
which are approximately 230 feet and 720 feet, respectively, west of Ellmaker Road) have more 
than 10 vehicles making leftturn movements, they both meet the turnlane criteria. Both of these 
driveways are along the section of OR 126W where it widens to accommodate the eastbound left
turn lane onto Ellmaker Road. Therefore, OR 126W is sufficiently wide to accommodate leftturn 
lanes at both driveways; however, current striping does not support the use of the center 
median/lane for vehicle storage at these driveways. Specifically, the eastbound leftturn lane for 
Ellmaker Road extends beyond Driveway 12, and there is a striped center median (i.e., two double
yellow lines) that extends farther west beyond Driveway 10. In addition, it is not desirable to 
provide a continuous leftturn lane (e.g., twoway leftturn lane) for closely spaced driveways on a 
high speed facility (such as where speeds are 55 mph). 

Rightturn lane analysis was performed for the study intersections that do not currently have 
standard rightturn lanes. Due to the high traffic volumes and travel speeds (55 mph) on OR 126W, 

                                                            
5
     Analysis Procedures Manual, Oregon Department of Transportation, January 2011. 
                                                                                 OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Future 
                                                                                       Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis
                                                                                                         December 7, 2011
                                                                                                             Page 12 of 14

the ODOT criteria indicate that rightturn lanes are needed at movements where volumes exceed 
20 rightturning vehicles during the 30th highest hour. Table 4 lists rightturn lane analysis results. 
The only location where the rightturn lane criteria are met is at the westbound rightturn 
movement at Ellmaker Road. This location currently has a flared approach and large turn radius that 
may partially serve as a rightturn lane, but it is recommended that a standard rightturn lane be 
provided. The eastbound rightturn movement at Central Road is nearing the threshold but is not 
forecasted to meet it. Another important consideration related to rightturn lanes is the resulting 
conflict with bicycle flow, particularly when there is limited rightofway. 

              Table 4: 2035 Right-Turn Lane Criteria (Intersections without Right-Turn Lanes)
                                                                             Right-Turn Vehicles
     Intersection                                       Movement                                           Criteria Met?
                                                                      ODOT Threshold      Turn Volume
     OR 126W/Ellmaker Rd                                  WB Right          20                170               Yes
     OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr                                WB Right          20                 0                 No
     OR 126W/Lake Side Dr                                 WB Right          20                 5                 No
     OR 126W/Central Rd                                    EB Right         20                 15                No
                                                          WB Right          20                 5                 No
     OR 126W/Fisher Rd                                    WB Right          20                 5                 No
     OR 126W/Richmond St                                  WB Right          20                 0                 No
     OR 126W/Ken Nielson Rd                                EB Right         20                 0                 No
 
Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis
Because the study corridor has uninterrupted flow along its entire length (except at the Green Hill 
Road traffic signal at the eastern edge of the corridor), twolane highway segment analysis was 
performed to further evaluate operations on the OR 126W study corridor. This analysis was 
performed based on 2000 Highway Capacity Manual methodology,6 which uses geometric and 
traffic volume data to determine the volumetocapacity (v/c) ratio for one travel direction on a 
given corridor segment. 

Table 5 lists the segment operations analysis results under 30th highest hour traffic conditions for 
both the 2011 existing and 2035 future horizon years.7 The results are listed by travel direction for 
four corridor segments. Due to the higher westbound volumes during the 30th highest hour, the 
westbound v/c ratios are greatest for each segment, and three of the segments exceed the 0.70 v/c 
mobility standard that is applicable for the corridor.8 In addition, the segment v/c ratios are 
comparable with the mainline v/c ratios at the principal unsignalized intersections along the 
corridor (see mainline OR 126W operations listed in Table 2 at the Shady Rest Drive, Central Road, 
Fisher Road, Richmond Street intersections). 


                                                            
6
     2000 Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board, Washington, D.C. 2000. 
7
     Detailed data and analysis output sheets are provided in the appendix. 
8
                                                                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Future 
                                                                                   Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis
                                                                                                     December 7, 2011
                                                                                                         Page 13 of 14

                            Table 5: OR 126W Segment Operations Analysis Results
                                                                         30th Highest Hour             Percent Time Spent
                                     Travel            Mobility             (v/c Ratio)b                   Followingc
    Segment (Distance)
                                    Direction         Standarda
                                                                          2011           2035            2011             2035
    Huston Rd to Ellmaker           Eastbound           0.70 v/c          0.26            0.35             -               -
     Rd (0.59 mi.)
                                    Westbound           0.70 v/c          0.52            0.69           78%              85%
    Ellmaker Rd to Central          Eastbound           0.70 v/c          0.25            0.34             -               -
      Rd (1.11 mi.)
                                    Westbound           0.70 v/c          0.55            0.76           77%              86%
    Central Rd to Fisher Rd         Eastbound           0.70 v/c          0.27            0.36             -               -
     (2.35 mi.)
                                    Westbound           0.70 v/c          0.57            0.78           77%              86%
    Fisher Rd to Green Hill         Eastbound           0.70 v/c          0.27            0.37             -               -
      Rd (1.87 mi.)
                                    Westbound           0.70 v/c          0.58            0.79           79%              86%
    a
      The same ODOT mobility standard applies as
    b
      Bold Shaded values do not meet mobility standards.
    c
      Percent time spent following (PTSF) during 30th Highest Hour only provided for highest direction of travel (i.e.,
      westbound).
 
Transit Needs
Lane Transit District (LTD) provides public transit service between the EugeneSpringfield area and 
Veneta via Route 93. This route focuses on peak weekday commute periods, with limited service 
during other hours of the day and on Saturday. None of the transit stops along the project study 
corridor have additional facilities (e.g., landing pads, shelters, parkandrides). In addition, LTD's 
RideSource service for those with disabling conditions that prevent them from being able to ride 
the LTD fixedroute bus system does not extend to the study corridor and is unlikely to in the future 
due to cost constraints. 


Pedestrian and Bicycle Deficiencies
The segment of OR 126W between Huston Road and Green Hill Road is a rural corridor with no 
sidewalks or designated bicycle lanes. Instead, there are narrow paved shoulders that require non
motorized users to travel immediately adjacent to, and often on the edge of, the vehicular travel 
lane. These shoulders are primarily four feet wide, but in some locations widen to ten feet. Some 
expected multimodal destinations along OR 126W include the county park (Perkins Peninsula 
County Park) located approximately two miles east of the Veneta city limits, the Fern Ridge 
Reservoir, and transit stops along the corridor. OR 126W is also used as a bike route to the coast. 

OR 126W currently has very low bike and pedestrian usage. Even if improved facilities are provided 
(e.g., sidewalks, wide shoulders, or striped bike lanes), users would be adjacent to highspeed 
highway traffic. Therefore, another option is to provide an alternate parallel pedestrian/bicycle 
route to the north or south of OR 126W to separate vehicular and nonvehicular users. Some 
limitations to providing an alternative route are that the existing roads to the south (i.e., Cantrell 
Road and Perkins Road) include segments of gravel and experience flooding. In addition, there is a 
                                                           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Future 
                                                                 Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis
                                                                                   December 7, 2011
                                                                                       Page 14 of 14

moderately steep hill on the east end near Green Hill Road. The route to the north is significantly 
out of direction and requires use of Territorial Road, which also does not have designated bike or 
pedestrian facilities. 

On the east end of the study corridor, there is limited connectivity between OR 126W and the 
existing Fern Ridge Path. Any bicycle route along the OR 126W corridor (or an alternate route) 
should provide a connection to the Fern Ridge Path in order to tie in to the Eugene 
bicycle/pedestrian network. Another important pedestrian/bicycle improvement includes a north
south connection between the Fern Ridge Path and Clear Lake Road to the north. 
Appendix
        Growth Rate Calculations 

        Level of Service Descriptions 

        HCM Intersection Analysis ­ 2035 Future 30th Highest Hour 

        Turn Lane Criteria 

        Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis 




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                           P09042019 
                                         Growth Rate Calculations




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                        P09042019 
Yearly Growth Rate Estimate for OR 126W
                                                                                                                                                                                         P.M. Peak BiDirectional Model 
                        Section of OR 126W                              2011 Counts (June 2nd)                      Future Volumes Table (AADT)                Noti ATR Historical ADT        Link Volumes (LCOG)
                                                                                                                                    Yearly Growth                                Growth                  Yearly Growth 
Description                      Western Road     Eastern Road      P.M.    A.M. 30th HV     ADT       2008        2009      2029        Rate        2035     2000      2009       Rate   2007    2031        Rate
Noti ATR                                                                                                           6,200     7,900        1.4%       8,495    5,914     6,199      0.5%
0.13 mi. east of Huston Rd       Huston Rd        Ellmaker Rd       1,110    965    1,230   13,390                 12,500   15,600        1.2%       16,685
0.02 mi. west of Central Rd      Ellmaker Rd      Central Rd        1,150    985    1,190   14,040                 13,600   17,200        1.3%       18,460
0.02 mi. east of Central Rd      Central Rd       Fisher Rd         1,303   1,120   1,294   15,850                 14,400   17,000        0.9%       17,910
0.10 mi. east of Fisher Rd       Fisher Rd        Ken Neilsen Rd    1,307   1,112   1,510   15,040                 13,600   16,500        1.1%       17,515
                                 Ken Neilsen Rd   Green Hill Rd     1,167   1,011   1,355   14,710                                                                                       1,489   1,947       1.5%
0.01 mi. east of Green Hill Rd   Green Hill Rd    East of . . .     1,525   1,317   1,775             14,500                21,100       2.2%        22,671                              1,710   2,486       2.3%

=> Use 1.5% yearly linear growth for OR 126W corridor (also on the conservative end of the Future Volume Tables)
=> Use 2.3% yearly linear growth for Eugene area
                              Level of Service Descriptions




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                 P09042019 
TRAFFIC LEVELS OF SERVICE
Analysis of traffic volumes is useful in understanding the general nature of traffic in an area, but by itself
indicates neither the ability of the street network to carry additional traffic nor the quality of service
afforded by the street facilities. For this, the concept of level of service has been developed to subjectively
describe traffic performance. Level of service can be measured at intersections and along key roadway
segments.

Level of service categories are similar to report card ratings for traffic performance. Intersections are
typically the controlling bottlenecks of traffic flow and the ability of a roadway system to carry traffic
efficiently is generally diminished in their vicinities. Levels of Service A, B and C indicate conditions
where traffic moves without significant delays over periods of peak travel demand. Level of service D and
E are progressively worse peak hour operating conditions and F conditions represent where demand
exceeds the capacity of an intersection. Most urban communities set level of service D as the minimum
acceptable level of service for peak hour operation and plan for level of service C or better for all other
times of the day. The Highway Capacity Manual provides level of service calculation methodology for
both intersections and arterials. 1 The following two sections provide interpretations of the analysis
approaches.




   1
       2000 Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board, Washington D.C., 2000, Chapters 16 and 17.
UNSIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS (Two-Way Stop Controlled)

Unsignalized intersection level of service is reported for the major street and minor street (generally, left
turn movements). The method assesses available and critical gaps in the traffic stream which make it
possible for side street traffic to enter the main street flow. The 2000 Highway Capacity Manual describes
the detailed methodology. It is not unusual for an intersection to experience level of service E or F
conditions for the minor street left turn movement. It should be understood that, often, a poor level of
service is experienced by only a few vehicles and the intersection as a whole operates acceptably.

Unsignalized intersection levels of service are described in the following table.

Level of Service Expected Delay     (Sec/Veh)


       A         Little or no delay   0-10.0

          B                  Short traffic delay                                             >10.1-15.0

          C                  Average traffic delays                                          >15.1-25.0

          D                  Long traffic delays                                             >25.1-35.0

          E                  Very long traffic delays                                        >35.1-50.0

          F                  Extreme delays potentially affecting                              > 50
                             other traffic movements in the intersection



Source:       2000 Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board Washington, D.C.
SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS

For signalized intersections, level of service is evaluated based upon average vehicle delay experienced by
vehicles entering an intersection. Control delay (or signal delay) includes initial deceleration delay, queue
move-up time, stopped delay, and final acceleration delay. In previous versions of this chapter of the HCM
(1994 and earlier), delay included only stopped delay. As delay increases, the level of service decreases.
Calculations for signalized and unsignalized intersections are different due to the variation in traffic
control. The 2000 Highway Capacity Manual provides the basis for these calculations.


    Level of Delay
    Service  (secs.)               Description
    
      A      <10.00  Free Flow/Insignificant Delays: No approach phase is fully utilized by traffic and no vehicle waits
                     longer than one red indication. Most vehicles do not stop at all. Progression is extremely favorable and
                     most vehicles arrive during the green phase.

        B          10.1-20.0        Stable Operation/Minimal Delays: An occasional approach phase is fully utilized. Many drivers begin
                                    to feel somewhat restricted within platoons of vehicles. This level generally occurs with good progression,
                                    short cycle lengths, or both.

        C          20.1-35.0        Stable Operation/Acceptable Delays: Major approach phases fully utilized. Most drivers feel somewhat
                                    restricted. Higher delays may result from fair progression, longer cycle lengths, or both. Individual cycle
                                    failures may begin to appear at this level, and the number of vehicles stopping is significant.

        D          35.1-55.0        Approaching Unstable/Tolerable Delays: The influence of congestion becomes more noticeable.
                                    Drivers may have to wait through more than one red signal indication. Longer delays may result from
                                    some combination of unfavorable progression, long cycle lengths, or high v/c ratios. The proportion of
                                    vehicles not stopping declines, and individual cycle failures are noticeable.

        E          55.1-80.0        Unstable Operation/Significant Delays: Volumes at or near capacity. Vehicles may wait though several
                                    signal cycles. Long queues form upstream from intersection. These high delay values generally indicate
                                    poor progression, long cycle lengths, and high v/c ratios. Individual cycle failures are a frequent
                                    occurrence.

        F          >80.0            Forced Flow/Excessive Delays: Represents jammed conditions. Queues may block upstream
                                    intersections. This level occurs when arrival flow rates exceed intersection capacity, and is considered to
                                    be unacceptable to most drivers. Poor progression, long cycle lengths, and v/c ratios approaching 1.0 may
                                    contribute to these high delay levels.


    
                  Source: 2000 Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board, Washington D.C.
 HCM Intersection Analysis ­ 2035 Future
                       30th Highest Hour




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan    P09042019 
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                    OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study                      HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
1: OR 126W & Huston Rd                                                                                2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)   2: OR 126W & Driveway 1                                                                        2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL    NBT       NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR     Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                       Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       20     475      25     195     895       25        20       5        70      15        5       25    Volume (veh/h)                        1     560     1115      1       1        1
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                       Stop                       Stop             Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                         0%                         0%              Grade                                       0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95    0.95     0.95   0.95     0.95       0.95   0.95      0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95    Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95
Hourly flow rate (vph)                21    500      26     205     942       26         21      5        74       16       5       26    Hourly flow rate (vph)                 1    589     1174       1      1        1
Pedestrians                                   2                                                  3                          1             Pedestrians                                   2                       4
Lane Width (ft)                            12.0                                               12.0                       12.0             Lane Width (ft)                            12.0                    12.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)                        4.0                                                4.0                        4.0             Walking Speed (ft/s)                        4.0                     4.0
Percent Blockage                              0                                                  0                          0             Percent Blockage                              0                       0
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                                    Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None                                                                   Median type                                None    None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                                       Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                                      Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                                     pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              969                     529                       1929    1925      503     1972     1925      945    vC, conflicting volume              1179                           1770     1180
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                                     vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                                     vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  969                     529                       1929    1925      503     1972     1925      945    vCu, unblocked vol                  1179                           1770     1180
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                       7.1     6.5       6.2     7.2      6.5       6.3   tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                                           tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                    2.2                         3.5     4.0      3.3      3.6      4.0      3.4   tF (s)                               2.2                            3.5       3.3
p0 queue free %                      97                      80                         40      90       87       45       90       91    p0 queue free %                     100                             99       100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 718                    1035                         35      52      561       29       52      303    cM capacity (veh/h)                 598                             92       233
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    EB 3    WB 1    WB 2    WB 3        NB 1    SB 1                                       Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          21    500      26      205     942      26        100      47                                       Volume Total                         591   1175        2
Volume Left                           21      0       0      205       0       0         21      16                                       Volume Left                            1       0       1
Volume Right                           0      0      26        0       0      26         74      26                                       Volume Right                           0       1       1
cSH                                  718   1700    1700    1035    1700    1700         121      64                                       cSH                                  598   1700      132
Volume to Capacity                  0.03   0.29    0.02     0.20    0.55    0.02       0.83    0.74                                       Volume to Capacity                  0.00    0.69    0.02
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2      0       0       18       0       0        124      82                                       Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       0       1
Control Delay (s)                   10.2    0.0     0.0      9.3     0.0     0.0      108.1   149.9                                       Control Delay (s)                    0.0     0.0    32.7
Lane LOS                               B                       A                          F       F                                       Lane LOS                               A               D
Approach Delay (s)                   0.4                     1.6                      108.1   149.9                                       Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     0.0    32.7
Approach LOS                                                                              F       F                                       Approach LOS                                           D
Intersection Summary                                                                                                                      Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                       10.7                                                                                  Average Delay                                         0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 67.0%        ICU Level of Service                        C                              Intersection Capacity Utilization                  69.4%       ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                                 15                                                                                  Analysis Period (min)                                  15




DKS Associates                                                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report    DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
8/30/2011                                                                                                                       Page 1    8/30/2011                                                                                                                Page 2
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study              HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
3: OR 126W & Driveway 2                                                                        2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)   4: OR 126W & Driveway 3                                                                        2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)



Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR                                                    Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        0     560     1110      0       0        5                                                   Volume (veh/h)                        0     560     1105      5       1        5
Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop                                                            Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                       0%       0%             0%                                                             Grade                                       0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95                                                   Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0    589     1168       0      0        5                                                   Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0    589     1163       5      1        5
Pedestrians                                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None    None                                                                            Median type                                None    None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1168                           1758     1168                                                   vC, conflicting volume              1168                           1755     1166
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1168                           1758     1168                                                   vCu, unblocked vol                  1168                           1755     1166
tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2                                                   tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                             3.5      3.3                                                  tF (s)                               2.2                            3.5       3.3
p0 queue free %                     100                             100       98                                                   p0 queue free %                     100                             99        98
cM capacity (veh/h)                 605                              94      238                                                   cM capacity (veh/h)                 605                             95       238
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1                                                                           Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                         589   1168        5                                                                           Volume Total                         589   1168        6
Volume Left                            0       0       0                                                                           Volume Left                            0       0       1
Volume Right                           0       0       5                                                                           Volume Right                           0       5       5
cSH                                  605   1700      238                                                                           cSH                                  605   1700      190
Volume to Capacity                  0.00    0.69    0.02                                                                           Volume to Capacity                  0.00    0.69    0.03
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       0       2                                                                           Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       0       3
Control Delay (s)                    0.0     0.0    20.5                                                                           Control Delay (s)                    0.0     0.0    24.6
Lane LOS                                               C                                                                           Lane LOS                                               C
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     0.0    20.5                                                                           Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     0.0    24.6
Approach LOS                                           C                                                                           Approach LOS                                           C
Intersection Summary                                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         0.1                                                                          Average Delay                                         0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  68.4%       ICU Level of Service                 C                              Intersection Capacity Utilization                  68.5%       ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15                                                                          Analysis Period (min)                                  15




DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report    DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
8/30/2011                                                                                                                Page 3    8/30/2011                                                                                                                Page 4
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study              HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
5: OR 126W & Driveway 4                                                                        2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)   6: OR 126W & Driveway 5                                                                        2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)



Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR                                                    Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        0     560     1110      0       0        1                                                   Volume (veh/h)                        0     560     1105      0       0        5
Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop                                                            Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                       0%       0%             0%                                                             Grade                                       0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95                                                   Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0    589     1168       0      0        1                                                   Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0    589     1163       0      0        5
Pedestrians                                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None    None                                                                            Median type                                None    None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1168                           1758     1168                                                   vC, conflicting volume              1163                           1753     1163
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1168                           1758     1168                                                   vCu, unblocked vol                  1163                           1753     1163
tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2                                                   tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                             3.5      3.3                                                  tF (s)                               2.2                             3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                     100                             100      100                                                   p0 queue free %                     100                             100       98
cM capacity (veh/h)                 605                              94      238                                                   cM capacity (veh/h)                 608                              95      239
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1                                                                           Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                         589   1168        1                                                                           Volume Total                         589   1163        5
Volume Left                            0       0       0                                                                           Volume Left                            0       0       0
Volume Right                           0       0       1                                                                           Volume Right                           0       0       5
cSH                                  605   1700      238                                                                           cSH                                  608   1700      239
Volume to Capacity                  0.00    0.69    0.00                                                                           Volume to Capacity                  0.00    0.68    0.02
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       0       0                                                                           Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       0       2
Control Delay (s)                    0.0     0.0    20.2                                                                           Control Delay (s)                    0.0     0.0    20.4
Lane LOS                                               C                                                                           Lane LOS                                               C
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     0.0    20.2                                                                           Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     0.0    20.4
Approach LOS                                           C                                                                           Approach LOS                                           C
Intersection Summary                                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         0.0                                                                          Average Delay                                         0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  68.4%       ICU Level of Service                 C                              Intersection Capacity Utilization                  68.2%       ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15                                                                          Analysis Period (min)                                  15




DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report    DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
8/30/2011                                                                                                                Page 5    8/30/2011                                                                                                                Page 6
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study              HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
7: OR 126W & Driveway 6                                                                        2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)   8: OR 126W & Driveway 7                                                                        2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)



Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR                                                    Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        1     560     1105      5       1        1                                                   Volume (veh/h)                        5     555     1110      5       5        1
Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop                                                            Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                       0%       0%             0%                                                             Grade                                       0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95                                                   Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 1    589     1163       5      1        1                                                   Hourly flow rate (vph)                 5    584     1168       5      5        1
Pedestrians                                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None    None                                                                            Median type                                None    None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1168                           1757     1166                                                   vC, conflicting volume              1174                           1766     1171
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1168                           1757     1166                                                   vCu, unblocked vol                  1174                           1766     1171
tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2                                                   tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                            3.5       3.3                                                  tF (s)                               2.2                            3.5       3.3
p0 queue free %                     100                             99       100                                                   p0 queue free %                      99                             94       100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 605                             94       238                                                   cM capacity (veh/h)                 602                             92       237
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1                                                                           Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                         591   1168        2                                                                           Volume Total                         589   1174        6
Volume Left                            1       0       1                                                                           Volume Left                            5       0       5
Volume Right                           0       5       1                                                                           Volume Right                           0       5       1
cSH                                  605   1700      135                                                                           cSH                                  602   1700      103
Volume to Capacity                  0.00    0.69    0.02                                                                           Volume to Capacity                  0.01    0.69    0.06
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       0       1                                                                           Queue Length 95th (ft)                 1       0       5
Control Delay (s)                    0.0     0.0    32.1                                                                           Control Delay (s)                    0.2     0.0    42.3
Lane LOS                               A               D                                                                           Lane LOS                               A               E
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     0.0    32.1                                                                           Approach Delay (s)                   0.2     0.0    42.3
Approach LOS                                           D                                                                           Approach LOS                                           E
Intersection Summary                                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         0.1                                                                          Average Delay                                         0.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  68.5%       ICU Level of Service                 C                              Intersection Capacity Utilization                  68.7%       ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15                                                                          Analysis Period (min)                                  15




DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report    DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
8/30/2011                                                                                                                Page 7    8/30/2011                                                                                                                Page 8
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study              HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
9: OR 126W & Driveway 8                                                                        2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)   10: OR 126W & Driveway 9                                                                       2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)



Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR                                                    Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        0     560     1110      1       0        5                                                   Volume (veh/h)                        0     560     1110      1       1        1
Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop                                                            Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                       0%       0%             0%                                                             Grade                                       0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95                                                   Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0    589     1168       1      0        5                                                   Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0    589     1168       1      1        1
Pedestrians                                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None    None                                                                            Median type                                None    None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1169                           1758     1169                                                   vC, conflicting volume              1169                           1758     1169
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1169                           1758     1169                                                   vCu, unblocked vol                  1169                           1758     1169
tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2                                                   tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                             3.5      3.3                                                  tF (s)                               2.2                            3.5       3.3
p0 queue free %                     100                             100       98                                                   p0 queue free %                     100                             99       100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 605                              94      237                                                   cM capacity (veh/h)                 605                             94       237
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1                                                                           Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                         589   1169        5                                                                           Volume Total                         589   1169        2
Volume Left                            0       0       0                                                                           Volume Left                            0       0       1
Volume Right                           0       1       5                                                                           Volume Right                           0       1       1
cSH                                  605   1700      237                                                                           cSH                                  605   1700      135
Volume to Capacity                  0.00    0.69    0.02                                                                           Volume to Capacity                  0.00    0.69    0.02
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       0       2                                                                           Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       0       1
Control Delay (s)                    0.0     0.0    20.5                                                                           Control Delay (s)                    0.0     0.0    32.1
Lane LOS                                               C                                                                           Lane LOS                                               D
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     0.0    20.5                                                                           Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     0.0    32.1
Approach LOS                                           C                                                                           Approach LOS                                           D
Intersection Summary                                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         0.1                                                                          Average Delay                                         0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  68.5%       ICU Level of Service                 C                              Intersection Capacity Utilization                  68.5%       ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15                                                                          Analysis Period (min)                                  15




DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report    DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
8/30/2011                                                                                                                Page 9    8/30/2011                                                                                                              Page 10
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study              HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
11: OR 126W & Driveway 10                                                                      2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)   12: OR 126W & Driveway 11                                                                      2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)



Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR                                                    Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       15     545     1095      1       0       15                                                   Volume (veh/h)                        5     540     1080     15       5       15
Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop                                                            Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                       0%       0%             0%                                                             Grade                                       0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95                                                   Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95
Hourly flow rate (vph)                16    574     1153       1      0       16                                                   Hourly flow rate (vph)                 5    568     1137      16      5       16
Pedestrians                                                           2                                                            Pedestrians                                                           2
Lane Width (ft)                                                    12.0                                                            Lane Width (ft)                                                    12.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                4.0                                                            Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                4.0
Percent Blockage                                                      0                                                            Percent Blockage                                                      0
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None    None                                                                            Median type                                None    None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1156                           1760     1155                                                   vC, conflicting volume              1155                           1726     1147
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1156                           1760     1155                                                   vCu, unblocked vol                  1155                           1726     1147
tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2                                                   tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                            3.5       3.3                                                  tF (s)                               2.2                            3.5       3.3
p0 queue free %                      97                             100       93                                                   p0 queue free %                      99                             95        94
cM capacity (veh/h)                 611                              91      241                                                   cM capacity (veh/h)                 611                             98       244
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1                                                                           Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                         589   1154       16                                                                           Volume Total                         574   1153       21
Volume Left                           16       0       0                                                                           Volume Left                            5       0       5
Volume Right                           0       1      16                                                                           Volume Right                           0      16      16
cSH                                  611   1700      241                                                                           cSH                                  611   1700      178
Volume to Capacity                  0.03    0.68    0.07                                                                           Volume to Capacity                  0.01    0.68    0.12
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2       0       5                                                                           Queue Length 95th (ft)                 1       0      10
Control Delay (s)                    0.7     0.0    20.9                                                                           Control Delay (s)                    0.2     0.0    28.0
Lane LOS                               A               C                                                                           Lane LOS                               A               D
Approach Delay (s)                   0.7     0.0    20.9                                                                           Approach Delay (s)                   0.2     0.0    28.0
Approach LOS                                           C                                                                           Approach LOS                                           D
Intersection Summary                                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         0.4                                                                          Average Delay                                         0.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  67.7%       ICU Level of Service                 C                              Intersection Capacity Utilization                  67.8%       ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15                                                                          Analysis Period (min)                                  15




DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report    DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
8/30/2011                                                                                                              Page 11     8/30/2011                                                                                                              Page 12
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study              HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
13: OR 126W & Driveway 12                                                                      2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)   14: OR 126W & Driveway 13                                                                      2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)



Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR                                                    Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       20     525     1075     15       5       20                                                   Volume (veh/h)                        1     530     1090      0       1        0
Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop                                                            Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                       0%       0%             0%                                                             Grade                                       0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95                                                   Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95
Hourly flow rate (vph)                21    553     1132      16      5       21                                                   Hourly flow rate (vph)                 1    558     1147       0      1        0
Pedestrians                                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                                                                                                                   Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None    None                                                                            Median type                                None    None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1147                           1734     1139                                                   vC, conflicting volume              1147                           1707     1147
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1147                           1734     1139                                                   vCu, unblocked vol                  1147                           1707     1147
tC, single (s)                       4.2                            6.4      6.2                                                   tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.3                            3.5       3.3                                                  tF (s)                               2.2                             3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                      96                             94        91                                                   p0 queue free %                     100                              99      100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 588                             94       247                                                   cM capacity (veh/h)                 616                             101      244
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1                                                                           Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                         574   1147       26                                                                           Volume Total                         559   1147        1
Volume Left                           21       0       5                                                                           Volume Left                            1       0       1
Volume Right                           0      16      21                                                                           Volume Right                           0       0       0
cSH                                  588   1700      186                                                                           cSH                                  616   1700      101
Volume to Capacity                  0.04    0.67    0.14                                                                           Volume to Capacity                  0.00    0.67    0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 3       0      12                                                                           Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       0       1
Control Delay (s)                    1.0     0.0    27.5                                                                           Control Delay (s)                    0.0     0.0    41.0
Lane LOS                               A               D                                                                           Lane LOS                               A               E
Approach Delay (s)                   1.0     0.0    27.5                                                                           Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     0.0    41.0
Approach LOS                                           D                                                                           Approach LOS                                           E
Intersection Summary                                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         0.7                                                                          Average Delay                                         0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  67.5%       ICU Level of Service                 C                              Intersection Capacity Utilization                  67.4%       ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15                                                                          Analysis Period (min)                                  15




DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report    DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
8/30/2011                                                                                                              Page 13     8/30/2011                                                                                                              Page 14
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study              HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
15: OR 126W & Ellmaker Rd                                                                      2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)   16: OR 126W & Shady Rest Dr                                                                    2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)



Movement                            EBL    EBT     WBT     WBR     SBL      SBR                                                    Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       25     505    1075     170      50       15                                                   Volume (veh/h)                        0     545     1215      0       0        0
Sign Control                               Free    Free            Stop                                                            Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                       0%      0%              0%                                                             Grade                                       0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95    0.95     0.95   0.95     0.95                                                   Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95
Hourly flow rate (vph)                26    532    1132     179      53       16                                                   Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0    574     1279       0      0        0
Pedestrians                                   1                                                                                    Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)                            12.0                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)                        4.0                                                                                    Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage                              0                                                                                    Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None   None                                                                             Median type                                None    None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1311                           1716     1133                                                   vC, conflicting volume              1279                           1853     1279
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1311                           1716     1133                                                   vCu, unblocked vol                  1279                           1853     1279
tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2                                                   tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                            3.5       3.3                                                  tF (s)                               2.2                             3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                      95                             45        94                                                   p0 queue free %                     100                             100      100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 535                             95       249                                                   cM capacity (veh/h)                 550                              82      205
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    SB 1                                                            Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          26    532   1132      179      68                                                            Volume Total                         574   1279        0
Volume Left                           26      0       0        0     53                                                            Volume Left                            0       0       0
Volume Right                           0      0       0      179     16                                                            Volume Right                           0       0       0
cSH                                  535   1700   1700     1700     111                                                            cSH                                  550   1700     1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.05   0.31    0.67     0.11   0.62                                                            Volume to Capacity                  0.00    0.75    0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 4      0       0        0     77                                                            Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       0       0
Control Delay (s)                   12.1    0.0     0.0      0.0   79.3                                                            Control Delay (s)                    0.0     0.0     0.0
Lane LOS                               B                              F                                                            Lane LOS                                               A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.6             0.0           79.3                                                            Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     0.0     0.0
Approach LOS                                                          F                                                            Approach LOS                                           A
Intersection Summary                                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        3.0                                                                           Average Delay                                         0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 67.3%        ICU Level of Service                 C                              Intersection Capacity Utilization                  67.3%       ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                                 15                                                                           Analysis Period (min)                                  15




DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report    DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
8/30/2011                                                                                                              Page 15     8/30/2011                                                                                                              Page 16
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study              HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                     OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Study
19: OR 126W & Fisher Rd                                                                        2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)   20: OR 126W & Richmond St                                                                      2035 30th Highest Hour (No-Build)



Movement                            EBL    EBT     WBT     WBR     SBL      SBR                                                    Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       60     585    1250       5       5      155                                                   Volume (veh/h)                        0     580     1265      0       0        0
Sign Control                               Free    Free            Stop                                                            Sign Control                               Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                       0%      0%              0%                                                             Grade                                       0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95    0.95     0.95   0.95     0.95                                                   Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.95     0.95    0.95   0.95     0.95
Hourly flow rate (vph)                63    616    1316        5      5     163                                                    Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0    611     1332       0      0        0
Pedestrians                                                                                                                        Pedestrians                                            1
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                                    Lane Width (ft)                                     12.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                               Walking Speed (ft/s)                                 4.0
Percent Blockage                                                                                                                   Percent Blockage                                       0
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                             Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None   None                                                                             Median type                                None    None
Median storage veh)                                                                                                                Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                                                                               Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked                                                                                                              pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1321                           2061     1318                                                   vC, conflicting volume              1332                           1943     1332
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1321                           2061     1318                                                   vCu, unblocked vol                  1332                           1943     1332
tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.9      6.2                                                   tC, single (s)                       4.1                            6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                                    tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                            4.0       3.3                                                  tF (s)                               2.2                             3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                      88                             86        16                                                   p0 queue free %                     100                             100      100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 513                             39       193                                                   cM capacity (veh/h)                 525                              72      191
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1      SB 1                                                                   Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          63    616   1321       168                                                                   Volume Total                         611   1332        0
Volume Left                           63      0       0        5                                                                   Volume Left                            0       0       0
Volume Right                           0      0       5      163                                                                   Volume Right                           0       0       0
cSH                                  513   1700   1700       172                                                                   cSH                                  525   1700     1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.12   0.36    0.78     0.98                                                                   Volume to Capacity                  0.00    0.78    0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)                10      0       0      193                                                                   Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       0       0
Control Delay (s)                   13.0    0.0     0.0    117.8                                                                   Control Delay (s)                    0.0     0.0     0.0
Lane LOS                               B                       F                                                                   Lane LOS                                               A
Approach Delay (s)                   1.2             0.0   117.8                                                                   Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     0.0     0.0
Approach LOS                                                   F                                                                   Approach LOS                                           A
Intersection Summary                                                                                                               Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        9.5                                                                           Average Delay                                         0.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 82.6%        ICU Level of Service                 E                              Intersection Capacity Utilization                  69.9%       ICU Level of Service                 C
Analysis Period (min)                                 15                                                                           Analysis Period (min)                                  15




DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report    DKS Associates                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
8/30/2011                                                                                                              Page 19     8/30/2011                                                                                                              Page 20
                                         Turn Lane Criteria




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                 P09042019 
Left Turn Lane Analysis
  Project:                 OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                       Average Vehicle Length in Queue = 25 ft
  Scenario(s):             No-Build         Rough estimate because we do not expect trucks to be making these turn movements

2011 Existing 30th HV
                            Approach   Number of   Number of    Volume     Volume     Combined                             ODOT        Max.   Storage
                                                                                                         LT    ODOT LT
Intersection                 (NB,SB,   Advancing   Opposing    Opposing   Advancing    Volume     LT %                     Criteria    Est.   Length
                                                                                                         Vol   Threshold
                             EB,WB)      Lanes       Lanes       (Vo)        (Va)      (÷ Lane)                             Met?      Queue     (ft)

Driveway 1 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         826         406        1232      0%      1       10       Consider

Driveway 2 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         825         405        1230      0%      0       10         No
Driveway 3 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         822         405        1227      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 4 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         820         405        1225      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 5 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         815         405        1220      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 6 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         817         406        1223      0%      1       10       Consider
Driveway 7 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         820         407        1227      0%      2       10       Consider

Driveway 8 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         816         410        1226      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 9 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         816         410        1226      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 10 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         806         410        1216      2%     10       10         Yes        1       75

Driveway 11 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         805         400        1205      1%      5       10       Consider
Driveway 12 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         800         400        1200      4%     15       10         Yes        1       75

Driveway 13 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         800         391        1191      0%      1       10       Consider

Shady Rest Dr & Hwy 126        EB          1           1         895         400        1295      0%      0       10         No
Lake Side Dr & Hwy 126         EB          1           1         895         400        1295      0%      0       10         No
Richmond St & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         930         425        1355      0%      0       10         No

Ken Neilsen Rd & Hwy 126       WB          1           1         435         925        1360      1%      5       10       Consider


2035 Future 30th HV (No-Build)
                            Approach   Number of   Number of    Volume     Volume     Combined                             ODOT        Max.   Storage
                                                                                                         LT    ODOT LT
Intersection                 (NB,SB,   Advancing   Opposing    Opposing   Advancing    Volume     LT %                     Criteria    Est.   Length
                                                                                                         Vol   Threshold
                             EB,WB)      Lanes       Lanes       (Vo)        (Va)      (÷ Lane)                             Met?      Queue     (ft)

Driveway 1 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1116        561        1677      0%      1       10       Consider
Dri e a 2 & H
Driveway    Hwy 126            EB          1           1         1110        560        1670      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 3 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1110        560        1670      0%      0       10         No
Driveway 4 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1110        560        1670      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 5 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1105        560        1665      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 6 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1110        561        1671      0%      1       10       Consider
Driveway 7 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1115        560        1675      1%      5       10       Consider
Driveway 8 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1111        560        1671      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 9 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1111        560        1671      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 10 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         1096        560        1656      3%     15       10         Yes        1       75
Driveway 11 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         1095        545        1640      1%      5       10       Consider

Driveway 12 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         1090        545        1635      4%     20       10         Yes        2       75

Driveway 13 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         1090        531        1621      0%      1       10       Consider

Shady Rest Dr & Hwy 126        EB          1           1         1215        545        1760      0%      0       10         No

Lake Side Dr & Hwy 126         EB          1           1         1215        545        1760      0%      0       10         No
Richmond St & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         1265        580        1845      0%      0       10         No

Ken Neilsen Rd & Hwy 126       WB          1           1         590        1255        1845      0%      5       10       Consider



*The "Consider" note applies when there are high through volumes but less than 10 left turning vehicles.

ODOT LEFT TURN CRITERIA IS BASED ON THE 8-13-03 LEFT TURN CRITERIA
MAX QUEUE AND STORAGE ESTIMATES BASED ON GARD METHOD
Right-Turn Lane Analysis
  Project:                 OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
  Scenario(s):             No-Build

2011 Existing 30th HV
                           Approach   2-lane or     Volume           ODOT RT
                            (NB,SB,   Multi-lane   Advancing   RT      Lane    ODOT RT NCHRP RT    Taper     RT Lane    NCHRP     NCHRP
Intersection                EB,WB)    Highway         (Va)     Vol    Criteria  Lane?   Volume    Criteria   Criteria   Taper?   RT Lane?

Driveway 1 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        826       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 2 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        825       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Driveway 3 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        822       2      20     Shoulder    2         20         40        No        No

Driveway 4 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        820       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No

Driveway 5 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        815       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Driveway 6 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        817       2      20     Shoulder    2         20         40        No        No

Driveway 7 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        820       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Driveway 8 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        816       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 9 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        816       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 10 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane        806       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No
Driveway 11 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane        805      10      20     Shoulder    10        20         40        No        No

Driveway 12 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane        800      10      20     Shoulder    10        20         40        No        No

Driveway 13 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane        800       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Ellmaker Rd & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane        915      125     20       Yes      125        20         40        Yes       Yes
Shady Rest Dr & Hwy 126       WB        2-lane        895       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No

Lake Side Dr & Hwy 126        WB        2-lane        896       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Central Rd & Hwy 126          EB        2-lane        397      10      28       No        10        31         68        No        No
Central Rd & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1032       2      20     Shoulder    2         20         40        No        No
Fisher Rd & Hwy 126           WB        2-lane        925       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Richmond St & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane        930       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No

Ken Neilsen Rd & Hwy 126      EB        2-lane        435       0      25       No        0         27         63        No        No


2035 Future 30th HV (No-Build)
                           Approach   2-lane or     Volume           ODOT RT
                            (NB,SB,   Multi-lane   Advancing   RT      Lane    ODOT RT NCHRP RT    Taper     RT Lane    NCHRP     NCHRP
Intersection                EB,WB)    Highway         (Va)     Vol    Criteria  Lane?   Volume    Criteria   Criteria   Taper?   RT Lane?

Driveway 1 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1116       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 2 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1110       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Driveway 3 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1110       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Driveway 4 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1110       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Driveway 5 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1105       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No

Driveway 6 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1110       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Driveway 7 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1115       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No
Driveway 8 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1111       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 9 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1111       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 10 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane       1096       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 11 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane       1095      15      20     Shoulder    15        20         40        No        No

Driveway 12 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane       1090      15      20     Shoulder    15        20         40        No        No
Driveway 13 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane       1090       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No

Ellmaker Rd & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane       1245      170     20       Yes      170        20         40        Yes       Yes

Shady Rest Dr & Hwy 126       WB        2-lane       1215       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Lake Side Dr & Hwy 126        WB        2-lane       1216       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Central Rd & Hwy 126          EB        2-lane        545      15      20       No        15        20         48        No        No

Central Rd & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1405       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Fisher Rd & Hwy 126           WB        2-lane       1255       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Richmond St & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane       1265       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Ken Neilsen Rd & Hwy 126      EB        2-lane        590       0      20       No        0         20         41        No        No
        Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis




ODOT OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan    P09042019 
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.26
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         64      veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           242     veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                1.4     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (EB)
From/To                Huston Rd to Ellmaker Rd                                  Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2011 Existing                                             2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1               Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.94
Shoulder width        8.0     ft      % Trucks and buses         5      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft      % Trucks crawling          0.0    %
Segment length        0.6     mi      Truck crawl speed          0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          0.6     mi
Terrain type          Level           % Recreational vehicles    0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0     mi
Grade: Length                 mi      % No-passing zones         100    %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0     mi
        Up/down               %       Access points/mi           22     /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       44.9    mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)
Analysis direction volume, Vd   410     veh/h                                    Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)
Opposing direction volume, Vo   825     veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)              length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70    mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.2                  1.1               Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0                   length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   -1.11   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.990                0.995             Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                 1.00                  on average speed, fpl                                     1.10
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         441     pc/h         882     pc/h      Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    48.7

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM               -       mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                      -       veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    7.80     mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS              62.0     mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS   0.0      mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -7.21    mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA              5.5      mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.61
Free-flow speed, FFSd                           56.5     mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                            %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp            1.3      mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                      44.9     mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               1.3     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                  1.0               Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0               1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      0.995                1.000             2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                 1.00              3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         438    pc/h          878     pc/h      4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 51.9     %                        Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                        %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS                              D
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.52
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         129     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           487     veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                3.1     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (WB)
From/To                Huston Rd to Ellmaker Rd                                  Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2011 Existing                                             2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1               Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.94
Shoulder width        8.0     ft      % Trucks and buses         4      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft      % Trucks crawling          0.0    %
Segment length        0.6     mi      Truck crawl speed          0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          0.6     mi
Terrain type          Level           % Recreational vehicles    0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0     mi
Grade: Length                 mi      % No-passing zones         100    %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0     mi
        Up/down               %       Access points/mi           22     /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       41.6    mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)              77.8
Analysis direction volume, Vd   825     veh/h                                    Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)                   D
Opposing direction volume, Vo   410     veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)              length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70    mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                  1.2               Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0                   length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   -1.11   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.996                0.992             Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                 1.00                  on average speed, fpl                                     1.11
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         881     pc/h         440     pc/h      Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    45.4

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM               -       mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                      -       veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    4.45     mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS              60.0     mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS   0.0      mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -3.86    mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA              5.5      mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.62
Free-flow speed, FFSd                           54.5     mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                   50.2     %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp            2.6      mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                      41.6     mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl    C
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               2.8     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.0                  1.1               Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0               1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      1.000                0.996             2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                 1.00              3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         878    pc/h          438     pc/h      4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 69.0     %                        Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp               26.2
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                77.8    %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.25
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         116     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           440     veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                2.4     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (EB)
From/To                Ellmaker Rd to Central Rd                                 Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2011 Existing                                             2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1               Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.95
Shoulder width        4.0     ft      % Trucks and buses         4      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft      % Trucks crawling          0.0    %
Segment length        1.1     mi      Truck crawl speed          0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          1.1     mi
Terrain type          Level           % Recreational vehicles    0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0     mi
Grade: Length                 mi      % No-passing zones         40     %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0     mi
        Up/down               %       Access points/mi           3      /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       47.6    mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)
Analysis direction volume, Vd   400     veh/h                                    Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)
Opposing direction volume, Vo   890     veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)              length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70    mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.2                  1.1               Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0                   length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   -0.60   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.992                0.996             Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                 1.00                  on average speed, fpl                                     1.10
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         424     pc/h         941     pc/h      Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    50.8

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM               -       mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                      -       veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    7.92     mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS              61.0     mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS   1.3      mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -6.82    mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA              0.8      mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.61
Free-flow speed, FFSd                           59.0     mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                            %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp            0.7      mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                      47.6     mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               2.3     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                  1.0               Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0               1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      0.996                1.000             2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                 1.00              3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         423    pc/h          937     pc/h      4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 51.5     %                        Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                        %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS                              D
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.55
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         260     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           988     veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                5.4     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (WB)
From/To                Ellmaker Rd to Central Rd                                 Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2011 Existing                                             2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1               Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.95
Shoulder width        4.0     ft      % Trucks and buses         4      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft      % Trucks crawling          0.0    %
Segment length        1.1     mi      Truck crawl speed          0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          1.1     mi
Terrain type          Level           % Recreational vehicles    0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0     mi
Grade: Length                 mi      % No-passing zones         40     %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0     mi
        Up/down               %       Access points/mi           3      /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       48.4    mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)              76.9
Analysis direction volume, Vd   890     veh/h                                    Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)                   D
Opposing direction volume, Vo   400     veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)              length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70    mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                  1.2               Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0                   length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   -0.59   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.996                0.992             Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                 1.00                  on average speed, fpl                                     1.11
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         941     pc/h         424     pc/h      Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    52.0

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM               -       mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                      -       veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    4.04     mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS              63.0     mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS   1.3      mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -2.93    mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA              0.8      mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.62
Free-flow speed, FFSd                           61.0     mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                   51.7     %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp            2.0      mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                      48.4     mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl    C
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               5.0     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.0                  1.1               Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0               1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      1.000                0.996             2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                 1.00              3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         937    pc/h          423     pc/h      4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 70.9     %                        Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp               19.3
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                76.9    %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.27
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         272     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           1032    veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                5.5     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (EB)
From/To                Central Rd to Fisher Rd                                   Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2011 Existing                                             2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1               Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.95
Shoulder width        4.0     ft      % Trucks and buses         3      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft      % Trucks crawling          0.0    %
Segment length        2.4     mi      Truck crawl speed          0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          2.4    mi
Terrain type          Level           % Recreational vehicles    0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0    mi
Grade: Length                 mi      % No-passing zones         20     %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0    mi
        Up/down               %       Access points/mi           4      /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       49.0   mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)
Analysis direction volume, Vd   430     veh/h                                    Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)
Opposing direction volume, Vo   920     veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)              length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70   mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.2                  1.1               Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0                   length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   0.70   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.994                0.997             Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                 1.00                  on average speed, fpl                                     1.10
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         455     pc/h         971     pc/h      Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    50.7

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM               -       mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                      -       veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    7.67    mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS              63.0     mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS   1.3      mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -5.27   mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA              1.0      mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.61
Free-flow speed, FFSd                           60.7     mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                           %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp            0.6      mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                      49.0     mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               5.4     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                  1.0               Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0               1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      0.997                1.000             2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                 1.00              3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         454    pc/h          968     pc/h      4. v/c, VMT15, and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 53.9     %                     Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                        %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS                              D
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.57
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         581     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           2208    veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                12.6    veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (WB)
From/To                Central Rd to Fisher Rd                                   Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2011 Existing                                             2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1               Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.95
Shoulder width        4.0     ft      % Trucks and buses         3      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft      % Trucks crawling          0.0    %
Segment length        2.4     mi      Truck crawl speed          0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          2.4    mi
Terrain type          Level           % Recreational vehicles    0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0    mi
Grade: Length                 mi      % No-passing zones         20     %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0    mi
        Up/down               %       Access points/mi           5      /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       46.1   mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)              77.4
Analysis direction volume, Vd   920     veh/h                                    Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)                   D
Opposing direction volume, Vo   430     veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)              length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70   mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                  1.2               Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0                   length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   0.70   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.997                0.994             Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                 1.00                  on average speed, fpl                                     1.11
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         971     pc/h         455     pc/h      Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    47.9

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM               -       mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                      -       veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    3.82    mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS              61.0     mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS   1.3      mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -1.42   mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA              1.3      mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.62
Free-flow speed, FFSd                           58.5     mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                   57.2    %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp            1.3      mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                      46.1     mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl    C
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               12.1    veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.0                  1.1               Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0               1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      1.000                0.997             2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                 1.00              3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         968    pc/h          454     pc/h      4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 72.5     %                        Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp               15.3
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                77.4    %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.27
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         218     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           826     veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                4.8     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (EB)
From/To                Fisher Rd to Green Hill Rd                                Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2011 Existing                                             2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1               Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.95
Shoulder width        4.0     ft      % Trucks and buses         5      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft      % Trucks crawling          0.0    %
Segment length        1.9     mi      Truck crawl speed          0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          1.9    mi
Terrain type          Level           % Recreational vehicles    0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0    mi
Grade: Length                 mi      % No-passing zones         50     %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0    mi
        Up/down               %       Access points/mi           5      /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       45.5   mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)
Analysis direction volume, Vd   435     veh/h                                    Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)
Opposing direction volume, Vo   920     veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)              length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70   mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.2                  1.1               Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0                   length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   0.20   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.990                0.995             Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                 1.00                  on average speed, fpl                                     1.10
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         462     pc/h         973     pc/h      Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    47.6

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM               -       mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                      -       veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    7.62    mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS              60.0     mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS   1.3      mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -5.72   mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA              1.3      mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.61
Free-flow speed, FFSd                           57.5     mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                           %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp            0.8      mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                      45.5     mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               4.6     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                  1.0               Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0               1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      0.995                1.000             2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                 1.00              3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         460    pc/h          968     pc/h      4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 54.3     %                        Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                        %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS                              D
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.58
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         465     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           1767    veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                9.5     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (WB)
From/To                Fisher Rd To Green Hill Rd                                Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2011 Existing                                             2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1               Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.95
Shoulder width        4.0     ft      % Trucks and buses         4      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft      % Trucks crawling          0.0    %
Segment length        1.9     mi      Truck crawl speed          0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          1.9    mi
Terrain type          Level           % Recreational vehicles    0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0    mi
Grade: Length                 mi      % No-passing zones         50     %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0    mi
        Up/down               %       Access points/mi           5      /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       49.1   mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)              79.2
Analysis direction volume, Vd   930     veh/h                                    Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)                   D
Opposing direction volume, Vo   435     veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)              length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70   mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                  1.2               Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0                   length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   0.20   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.996                0.992             Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                 1.00                  on average speed, fpl                                     1.11
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         983     pc/h         462     pc/h      Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    51.5

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM               -       mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                      -       veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    3.75    mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS              65.0     mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS   1.3      mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -1.85   mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA              1.3      mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.62
Free-flow speed, FFSd                           62.5     mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                   56.8    %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp            2.1      mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                      49.1     mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl    C
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               9.0     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)          Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.0                  1.1               Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                  1.0               1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      1.000                0.996             2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                 1.00              3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         979    pc/h          460     pc/h      4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 72.9     %                        Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp               19.8
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                79.2    %
                         HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                    ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.35
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         87      veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           330     veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                2.1     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (EB)
From/To                Huston Rd to Ellmaker Rd                                  Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2035 Future Forecast                                      2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1                Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.95
Shoulder width        8.0     ft       % Trucks and buses         5      %       _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft       % Trucks crawling          0.0    %
Segment length        0.6     mi       Truck crawl speed          0.0    mi/hr   Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          0.6     mi
Terrain type          Level            % Recreational vehicles    0      %       Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0     mi
Grade: Length                 mi       % No-passing zones         100    %       Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0     mi
        Up/down               %        Access points/mi           22     /mi     Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       41.7    mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)
Analysis direction volume, Vd   560       veh/h                                  Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)
Opposing direction volume, Vo   1110      veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                              Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)            length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70    mi
PCE for trucks, ET                         1.2                   1.1             Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                            1.0                   1.0                 length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   -1.11   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV     0.990                 0.995           Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG              1.00                  1.00                on average speed, fpl                                     1.10
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi          595     pc/h          1174     pc/h   Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    45.2

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM                 -      mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                        -      veh/h                  Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde     6.56    mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS                62.0    mi/h                   Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS     0.0     mi/h                       the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld     -5.97   mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA                5.5     mi/h                   Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                      0.61
Free-flow speed, FFSd                             56.5    mi/h                   Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                            %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp              1.0     mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                        41.7    mi/h                   ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                1.9     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)            Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                    1.0             Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                    1.0             1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      0.995                  1.000           2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                   1.00            3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         592     pc/h           1168     pc/h   4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 64.5       %                      Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                          %
                         HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                    ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS                              E
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.69
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         173     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           649     veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                4.5     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (WB)
From/To                Huston Rd to Ellmaker Rd                                  Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2035 Future Forecast                                      2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1                Peak-hour factor, PHF
Shoulder width        8.0     ft       % Trucks and buses         4     %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft       % Trucks crawling          0.0   %
Segment length        0.6     mi       Truck crawl speed          0.0   mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          0.6     mi
Terrain type          Level            % Recreational vehicles    0     %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0     mi
Grade: Length                 mi       % No-passing zones         100   %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0     mi
        Up/down               %        Access points/mi           22    /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       38.8    mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)              85.0
Analysis direction volume, Vd   1100      veh/h                                  Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)                   E
Opposing direction volume, Vo   560       veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                              Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)            length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70    mi
PCE for trucks, ET                         1.1                   1.1             Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                            1.0                   1.0                 length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   -1.11   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV     0.996                 0.996           Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG              1.00                  1.00                on average speed, fpl                                     1.11
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi          1175    pc/h          598      pc/h   Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    42.4

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM                 -      mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                        -      veh/h                  Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde     3.60    mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS                60.0    mi/h                   Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS     0.0     mi/h                       the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld     -3.01   mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA                5.5     mi/h                   Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                      0.62
Free-flow speed, FFSd                             54.5    mi/h                   Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                    55.4    %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp              1.9     mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                        38.8    mi/h                   ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl     D
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                4.1     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)            Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.0                    1.1             Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                    1.0             1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      1.000                  0.996           2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                   1.00            3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         1170    pc/h           598      pc/h   4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 78.6       %                      Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp                19.0
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                 85.0     %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.34
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         159     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           605     veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                3.6     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (EB)
From/To                Ellmaker Rd to Central Rd                                 Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2035                                                      2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1                Peak-hour factor, PHF     0.95
Shoulder width        4.0     ft       % Trucks and buses        4      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft       % Trucks crawling         0.0    %
Segment length        1.1     mi       Truck crawl speed         0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          1.1     mi
Terrain type          Level            % Recreational vehicles   0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0     mi
Grade: Length                 mi       % No-passing zones        40     %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0     mi
        Up/down               %        Access points/mi          3      /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       43.9    mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)
Analysis direction volume, Vd   545      veh/h                                   Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)
Opposing direction volume, Vo   1215     veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)             length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70    mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.2                   1.1              Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                   1.0                  length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   -0.59   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.992                 0.996            Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                  1.00                 on average speed, fpl                                     1.10
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         578     pc/h          1284    pc/h     Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    46.8

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM                -      mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                       -      veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    6.69     mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS               61.0    mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS    1.3     mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -5.58    mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA               0.8     mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.61
Free-flow speed, FFSd                            59.0    mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                            %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp             0.6     mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                       43.9    mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               3.4     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                   1.0              Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                   1.0              1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      0.996                 1.000            2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                  1.00             3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         576    pc/h           1279    pc/h     4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 64.7      %                       Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                         %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS                              E
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.76
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         352     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           1337    veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                7.8     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (WB)
From/To                Ellmaker Rd to Central                                    Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2035 Future Forecast                                      2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1                Peak-hour factor, PHF     0.95
Shoulder width        4.0     ft       % Trucks and buses        4      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft       % Trucks crawling         0.0    %
Segment length        1.1     mi       Truck crawl speed         0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          1.1     mi
Terrain type          Level            % Recreational vehicles   0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0     mi
Grade: Length                 mi       % No-passing zones        40     %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0     mi
        Up/down               %        Access points/mi          3      /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       45.1    mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)              86.3
Analysis direction volume, Vd   1215     veh/h                                   Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)                   E
Opposing direction volume, Vo   545      veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)             length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70    mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                   1.2              Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                   1.0                  length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   -0.60   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.996                 0.992            Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                  1.00                 on average speed, fpl                                     1.11
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         1284    pc/h          578     pc/h     Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    48.4

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM                -      mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                       -      veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    3.60     mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS               63.0    mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS    1.3     mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -2.50    mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA               0.8     mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.62
Free-flow speed, FFSd                            61.0    mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                   58.5     %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp             1.4     mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                       45.1    mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl    C
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               7.3     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.0                   1.1              Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                   1.0              1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      1.000                 0.996            2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                  1.00             3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         1279   pc/h           576     pc/h     4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 81.2      %                       Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp               16.4
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                86.3     %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.36
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         369     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           1404    veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                8.2     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (EB)
From/To                Central Rd to Fisher Rd                                   Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2035                                                      2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1                Peak-hour factor, PHF     0.95
Shoulder width        4.0     ft       % Trucks and buses        3      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft       % Trucks crawling         0.0    %
Segment length        2.4     mi       Truck crawl speed         0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          2.4    mi
Terrain type          Level            % Recreational vehicles   0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0    mi
Grade: Length                 mi       % No-passing zones        20     %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0    mi
        Up/down               %        Access points/mi          5      /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       44.9   mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)
Analysis direction volume, Vd   585      veh/h                                   Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)
Opposing direction volume, Vo   1250     veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)             length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70   mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                   1.1              Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                   1.0                  length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   0.70   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.997                 0.997            Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                  1.00                 on average speed, fpl                                     1.11
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         618     pc/h          1320    pc/h     Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    46.6

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM                -      mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                       -      veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    6.37    mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS               63.0    mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS    1.3     mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -3.97   mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA               1.3     mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.62
Free-flow speed, FFSd                            60.5    mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                           %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp             0.5     mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                       44.9    mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               7.9     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.0                   1.0              Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                   1.0              1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      1.000                 1.000            2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                  1.00             3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         616    pc/h           1316    pc/h     4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 67.1      %                       Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                         %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS                              E
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.78
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         789     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           3000    veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                18.6    veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (WB)
From/To                Central Rd to Fisher Rd                                   Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2035 Future Forecast                                      2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1                Peak-hour factor, PHF     0.95
Shoulder width        4.0     ft       % Trucks and buses        3      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft       % Trucks crawling         0.0    %
Segment length        2.4     mi       Truck crawl speed         0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          2.4    mi
Terrain type          Level            % Recreational vehicles   0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0    mi
Grade: Length                 mi       % No-passing zones        20     %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0    mi
        Up/down               %        Access points/mi          5      /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       42.4   mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)              85.6
Analysis direction volume, Vd   1250     veh/h                                   Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)                   E
Opposing direction volume, Vo   585      veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)             length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70   mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                   1.1              Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                   1.0                  length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   0.70   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.997                 0.997            Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                  1.00                 on average speed, fpl                                     1.11
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         1320    pc/h          618     pc/h     Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    44.0

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM                -      mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                       -      veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    3.60    mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS               61.0    mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS    1.3     mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -1.20   mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA               1.3     mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.62
Free-flow speed, FFSd                            58.5    mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                   63.9    %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp             1.0     mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                       42.4    mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl    D
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               17.9    veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.0                   1.0              Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                   1.0              1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      1.000                 1.000            2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                  1.00             3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         1316   pc/h           616     pc/h     4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 82.1      %                       Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp               11.0
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                85.6     %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.37
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         295     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           1121    veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                7.1     veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (EB)
From/To                Fisher Rd to Green Hill Rd                                Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2035                                                      2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1                Peak-hour factor, PHF     0.95
Shoulder width        4.0     ft       % Trucks and buses        5      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft       % Trucks crawling         0.0    %
Segment length        1.9     mi       Truck crawl speed         0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          1.9    mi
Terrain type          Level            % Recreational vehicles   0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0    mi
Grade: Length                 mi       % No-passing zones        50     %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0    mi
        Up/down               %        Access points/mi          5      /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       41.5   mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)
Analysis direction volume, Vd   590      veh/h                                   Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)
Opposing direction volume, Vo   1265     veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)             length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70   mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                   1.1              Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                   1.0                  length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   0.20   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.995                 0.995            Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                  1.00                 on average speed, fpl                                     1.11
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         624     pc/h          1338    pc/h     Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    43.6

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM                -      mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                       -      veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    6.33    mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS               60.0    mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS    1.3     mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -4.43   mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA               1.3     mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.62
Free-flow speed, FFSd                            57.5    mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                           %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp             0.7     mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                       41.5    mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               6.8     veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.0                   1.0              Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                   1.0              1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      1.000                 1.000            2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                  1.00             3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         621    pc/h           1332    pc/h     4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 67.4      %                       Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                         %
                        HCS+: Two-Lane Highways Release 4.1f                     ________________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures_______________

_________________Directional Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis________________   Level of service, LOS                              E
                                                                                 Volume to capacity ratio, v/c                      0.79
Analyst                BBC                                                       Peak 15-min vehicle-miles of travel, VMT15         633     veh-mi
Agency/Co.             DKS Associates                                            Peak-hour vehicle-miles of travel, VMT60           2403    veh-mi
Date Performed         9/1/2011                                                  Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15                13.7    veh-h
Analysis Time Period   30th HV                                                   ______________________________________________________________________________
Highway                OR 126W (WB)
From/To                Fisher Rd to Green Hill Rd                                Notes:
Jurisdiction           ODOT                                                      1. If the highway is extended segment (level) or rolling terrain, fG = 1.0
Analysis Year          2035 Future Forecast                                      2. If vi (vd or vo ) >= 1,700 pc/h, terminate analysis-the LOS is F.
Description OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                     3. For the analysis direction only.
                                                                                 4. Exhibit 20-21 provides factors a and b.
__________________________________Input Data__________________________________   5. Use alternative Equation 20-14 if some trucks operate at crawl speeds
                                                                                    on a specific downgrade.
Highway class Class   1                Peak-hour factor, PHF     0.95
Shoulder width        4.0     ft       % Trucks and buses        4      %        _____________________________Passing Lane Analysis____________________________
Lane width            12.0    ft       % Trucks crawling         0.0    %
Segment length        1.9     mi       Truck crawl speed         0.0    mi/hr    Total length of analysis segment, Lt                          1.9    mi
Terrain type          Level            % Recreational vehicles   0      %        Length of two-lane highway upstream of the passing lane, Lu   0.0    mi
Grade: Length                 mi       % No-passing zones        20     %        Length of passing lane including tapers, Lpl                  0.0    mi
        Up/down               %        Access points/mi          5      /mi      Average travel speed, ATSd (from above)                       46.1   mi/h
                                                                                 Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd (from above)              85.9
Analysis direction volume, Vd   1265     veh/h                                   Level of service,(note-1) LOSd (from above)                   E
Opposing direction volume, Vo   590      veh/h
                                                                                 _____________________________Average Travel Speed_____________________________
____________________________Average Travel Speed______________________________
                                                                                 Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective
Direction                             Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)             length of passing lane for average travel speed, Lde      1.70   mi
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.1                   1.1              Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                   1.0                  length of the passing lane for average travel speed, Ld   0.20   mi
Heavy-vehicle adj. factor,(note-5) fHV    0.996                 0.996            Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
Grade adj. factor,(note-1) fG             1.00                  1.00                 on average speed, fpl                                     1.11
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         1337    pc/h          624     pc/h     Average travel speed including passing lane,(note-2) ATSpl    48.3

Free-Flow Speed from Field Measurement:                                          _________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________
Field measured speed,(note-3) S FM                -      mi/h
Observed volume,(note-3) Vf                       -      veh/h                   Downstream length of two-lane highway within effective length
Estimated Free-Flow Speed:                                                           of passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Lde    3.60    mi
Base free-flow speed,(note-3) BFFS               65.0    mi/h                    Length of two-lane highway downstream of effective length of
Adj. for lane and shoulder width,(note-3) fLS    1.3     mi/h                        the passing lane for percent time-spent-following, Ld    -1.70   mi
Adj. for access points,(note-3) fA               1.3     mi/h                    Adj. factor for the effect of passing lane
                                                                                     on percent time-spent-following, fpl                     0.62
Free-flow speed, FFSd                            62.5    mi/h                    Percent time-spent-following
                                                                                     including passing lane,(note-3) PTSFpl                   61.9    %
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp             1.2     mi/h
Average travel speed, ATSd                       46.1    mi/h                    ___________Level of Service and Other Performance Measures (note-4)___________

_________________________Percent Time-Spent-Following_________________________   Level of service including passing lane, LOSpl    C
                                                                                 Peak 15-min total travel time, TT15               13.1    veh-h
Direction                             Analysis(d)           Opposing (o)
PCE for trucks, ET                        1.0                   1.0              Notes:
PCE for RVs, ER                           1.0                   1.0              1. If LOSd = F, passing lane analysis cannot be performed.
Heavy-vehicle adjustment factor, fHV      1.000                 1.000            2. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-22.
Grade adjustment factor,(note-1) fG       1.00                  1.00             3. If Ld < 0, use alternative Equation 20-20.
Directional flow rate,(note-2) vi         1332   pc/h           621     pc/h     4. v/c, VMT15 , and VMT60 are calculated on Directional Two-Lane Highway
Base percent time-spent-following,(note-4) BPTSFd 82.5      %                       Segment Worksheet.
Adjustment for no-passing zones, fnp               10.9
Percent time-spent-following, PTSFd                85.9     %
                            APPENDIX E. HIGHWAY 126 FERN RIDGE CORRIDOR PLAN




Appendix E. Technical Memorandum #9, Highway 126 Fern Ridge
Corridor Plan ­ Develop and Evaluate Alternatives (DKS, 2011)
                          TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM #9
    TO:                Project Management Team 
                        
    FROM:              Scott Mansur, P.E., P.T.O.E., DKS Associates 
                       Peter Coffey, P.E., DKS Associates 
                       Brad Coy, E.I.T., DKS Associates 
                        
    DATE:              December 7, 2011 
                        
    SUBJECT:           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Develop and Evaluate 
                       Alternatives                                                             P09042019008 
     




    This memorandum identifies transportation alternatives for the OR 126W corridor to meet the 
    needs of all travel modes. OR 126W is an important corridor that connects Veneta and Eugene, 
    Oregon, and is also part of the larger OR 126 corridor that connects Eugene to the Oregon coast. OR 
    126W is managed by the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) and is being studied as part 
    of the OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan. The following prior memorandums have been prepared 
    as part of this plan and were used as the basis for the development of the various transportation 
    system alternatives identified in this memorandum: 
              Technical Memorandum #1 provides a transportation review of plans, policies, regulations, 
              and standards that are applicable to OR 126W. Past efforts and outstanding issues that were 
              identified in the review were used as the background in identifying the improvement needs 
              for the study corridor. All of the improvement ideas were considered in the preparation of 
              this memorandum. 
              Technical Memorandum #2 examines the existing transportation conditions by identifying 
              existing facilities as well as operational and safety deficiencies on OR 126W. It looks at the 
              roadway network, daily motor vehicle traffic characteristics, origindestination survey, 
              intersection traffic volumes and operations, collision analysis, pedestrian and bicycle 
              facilities and activity, transit service, and rail facilities and activity.  
              Technical Memorandum #7 documents the Purpose, Needs, Goals, and Objectives (PNGO) 
              for the Highway 126 Fern Corridor Plan. This document identifies the purpose of the 
              corridor plan, which is to develop a systemlevel transportation corridor plan, address multi
              modal safety and operational problems, and identify potential facility improvement options. 
              All of the alternatives presented in this memorandum take these criteria into account in 
              order to develop a multimodal transportation system to meet existing and future safety 
              and mobility needs for all transportation system users. 
              Technical Memorandum #8 forecasts the future travel demand on OR 126W and analyzes 
              the necessary improvement needs. It looks at roadway network deficiencies, environmental 
_____________________________
117 Commercial Street NE, Suite 310
Salem, Oregon 97301
(503) 391-8773 | (503) 391-8701 fax
www.dksassociates.com
                                                          OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Develop 
                                                                           and Evaluate Alternatives
                                                                                   December 7, 2011
                                                                                         Page 2 of 16

       constraints, future 2035 traffic operations, access management, transit needs, and 
       pedestrian and bicycle deficiencies. These needs for improvements are discussed in this 
       memorandum and are used in the development of the various alternatives for 
       improvements. 

The sections of this memorandum discuss specific improvements by transportation mode and 
overall transportation alternatives to address capacity needs, connectivity, and safety within the 
study area for year 2035 conditions.  


Specific Modal Improvements
Transportation improvement concepts were identified to address the needs of each of the 
transportation modes on the OR 126W study corridor. The modes that were considered include 
motor vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians, and transit and carpooling. 

Motor Vehicle Improvements
Motor vehicle improvements are needed to address safety, access, freight, railroad crossings, 
emergency services, and capacity. 

Safety
OR 126W is a twolane rural facility with a posted speed limit of 55 miles per hour and with 
shoulders ranging from four to ten feet. The curved geometry of the roadway at the eastern end in 
conjunction with rainy or dark conditions poses a hazard to users of the roadway. This is especially 
applicable in locations with more congestion, narrower lanes, and pavement ruts. There have also 
been problems with vehicles traveling at speeds greater than 60 miles per hour along the corridor. 

The only signalized intersection on the study corridor is located on the eastern end at Green Hill 
Road (within the City of Eugene Urban Growth Boundary). Therefore, vehicles making left or right 
turns at most other locations along the highway are stopped in travel lanes, causing queuing and 
congestion problems. In addition, 25% of the accidents between 2005 and 2009 occurred during 
dark conditions, but there is no clear indication that light levels significantly influenced overall 
collision trends. 

To address the safety concerns of OR 126W, improved signage, striping, and lighting would be 
beneficial for users. Given the signalized intersection at Green Hill Road and the curve before the 
intersection for eastbound travelers, advanced intersection signs would provide more warning for 
drivers. Variable speed signs may also help to reduce speeds to levels that are appropriate and safe 
for congested conditions. Given that the highway has a speed limit of 55 miles per hours, speed 
limits between 35 to 45 miles per hour may be recommended during congested conditions. Speed 
feedback signs would also help drivers to be more aware of their driving habits and the need to 
reduce their speeds. Moreover, clearer delineation of the roadways could be provided through 
shoulder rumble strips, edge and centerline striping, raised pavement markers, and roadway 
restriping to reduce crossover collision and to provide better delineation and visibility. More street 
                                                           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Develop 
                                                                            and Evaluate Alternatives
                                                                                    December 7, 2011
                                                                                          Page 3 of 16

lighting could prove beneficial, particularly at locations such as transit stops and public street 
intersections. 

Spot improvements could be made throughout the corridor to improve specific safety issues that 
were identified by stakeholders or the collision analysis. A westbound right turn lane is identified as 
a need at Ellmaker Road due to the high number of right turning vehicles. This turn lane also meets 
ODOT's applicable turn lane criteria. A westbound left turn lane at Ken Nielsen Road is also 
recommended due to the potential conflicts between stopped vehicles on the highway conflicting 
with through traffic. Turn lanes are beneficial on OR 126W since it is a twolane roadway and these 
new turn lanes would provide a storage area for turning vehicles. If the roadway allows, leftturn 
lanes could also be installed at lower priority locations, such as Shady Rest Drive, Lake Side Road, 
and Richmond Street, given that there are high speeds on the highway. 

Access
Along the stretch of OR 126W in the study corridor, the greatest concentration of access points is 
located at the westernmost section between Huston Road and Ellmaker Road. On this segment, 
there are 22 total access points, all of which are located on the north side of the roadway. This 
results in an average spacing of 220 feet between access points, but the access spacing standard is 
1,320 feet. Over the past five years, the average collision rate for this segment is higher than other 
corridor segments; therefore, there appears to be a correlation between access density and the 
rate of collision. A more detailed analysis of access spacing and collision rates are provided in the 
draft Access Management Plan provided in the appendix. 

The ultimate goal of access management is to improve traffic flow and safety by reducing conflict 
points at intersections and driveways while providing reasonable access for all users. This focus on 
access management is implemented through Oregon Access Management Rule (OAR 734051). 
Senate Bill 264 was recently passed by the 2011 Oregon Legislature and will result in some 
modification in access management by ODOT, though it does not appear that there will be access 
spacing standard changes to the OR 126W study corridor. These changes will be effective January 
2012 and will also be reflected in OAR 734051. 

Potential mitigation tools and measures to address these access issues include frontage and 
backage roads, shared or consolidated access points, interparcel circulation, turning restriction, 
turn lane installations, and public street connectivity. An Access Management Plan is being 
prepared in conjunction with the OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan and is provided in the appendix 
in draft form. This document provides more detailed descriptions of the mitigation tools listed 
previously as well as short, medium, and longrange strategies for access management along the 
corridor. 

Freight
OR 126W is designated as Freight Route by ODOT; therefore, highway modifications to the roadway 
should not reduce the through capacity of the highway and should maintain its reliability and 
mobility. The mobility standard for the highway is a volume to capacity (v/c) ratio of 0.70, which is 
                                                           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Develop 
                                                                            and Evaluate Alternatives
                                                                                    December 7, 2011
                                                                                          Page 4 of 16

required by ODOT as the goal for future development projects. With upcoming revisions to ODOT 
mobility standards that are planned to take effect January 1, 2012, the v/c ratio will increase to 
0.75.  The crosssection and other freightrelated roadway standards should also continue to be 
met. Spot improvements, including the installation of turn lanes and improved railroad crossings, 
could also be considered. The installation of a turn lane reduces the potential for accidents in the 
through lanes by providing a storage area for turning vehicles. These lanes are beneficial for 
accommodating trucks as well as passenger vehicles. 

Railroad Crossings
For the majority of the study area corridor (i.e., Huston Road to Fisher Road), the Coos Bay Rail Line 
is located only fifty feet south of OR 126W. Given the study corridor's proximity to the railroad, the 
five atgrade railroad crossings south of OR 126W can be improved by adjusting grades, traffic 
control, and spacing between the tracks and the highway. One option for improving the grades on 
the approaches to the atgrade crossings is to raise the level of OR 126W and the adjacent 
roadways to be level with the railroad. Crossing gates and flashing lights are recommended for the 
side streets to provide adequate warning for vehicles approaching the atgrade railroad crossing. 

Another option for improving the safety of the atgrade railroad crossings is to install a traffic signal 
at the OR 126W intersection and to move the northbound approach stop bar south of the crossing 
so that it requires vehicles to stop prior to the railroad tracks. This would eliminate the current 
safety issue where trucks stopped on this approach hang over the railroad tracks while they wait for 
a gap in through traffic.  Warrant 9 in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (2009 Edition) 
provides criteria for installing traffic signals near grade crossings, and it is expected that the Huston 
Road and Central Road intersections would meet this warrant under current conditions.  

In addition to improvements that specifically address railroad crossing needs, all of the 
improvements made on OR 126W should duly consider impacts on the adjacent railroad crossings. 
Roadway widening, alignment, signalization, and other improvements, along with the potential 
location of a multiuse trail, will be affected by the proximity of the railroad. 

Emergency Services
Since OR 126W is a twolane facility with narrow shoulders, it is unable to efficiently accommodate 
emergency vehicles or other vehicles that need to pull off to the side of the road. Therefore, 
alternate routes and accesses, wider shoulders, and turn around locations are needed for 
emergency vehicles, particularly during incidents. These needs are particularly important on OR 
126W due to the rural nature of the facility and the lack of existing parallel alternate routes. 

Recommendations to improve access for emergency vehicles include providing an improved parallel 
roadway via Ken Nielsen Road, Cantrell Road, Perkins Road, and other roads that are south of OR 
126W to serve as an alternate route. Turnarounds and emergency vehicle pulloffs could also be 
constructed on the highway for enforcement staff and emergency medical services. Modifications 
could also be made to the roadway geometry and cross section to allow for better access for 
emergency vehicles. By widening the shoulders, emergency vehicles would have better access and 
                                                          OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Develop 
                                                                           and Evaluate Alternatives
                                                                                   December 7, 2011
                                                                                         Page 5 of 16

areas in which they could park. OR 126W could also be modified into a three or four lane facility to 
better accommodate both vehicles and emergency services, though it may require obtaining right
ofway. 

Capacity
According to the 2035 traffic operations analysis completed in Technical Memorandum #8, multiple 
intersections along the corridor are not expected to meet volume to capacity (v/c) standards due to 
increased vehicular volumes. These higher mainline traffic volumes reduce available acceptable 
gaps for both mainline traffic turning left onto the side streets and side street traffic entering the 
roadway. Additional capacity is needed on OR 126W to accommodate higher traffic volumes and 
support the continued growth of Veneta and Eugene. Capacity improvements should provide 
satisfactory travel conditions between the two cities, to nearby recreational areas, and to the coast. 
Downtown Veneta contains a number of businesses and western Eugene has high development 
potential. Optional capacity improvements include transportation system management (TSM), 
expansion of the existing OR 126W alignment, alternate routes, and alternate mobility standards 
(AMS). 

Transportation System Management (TSM) 
Transportation system management (TSM) strategies include minor improvements such as speed 
feedback signs, raised pavement markers, and rumble strips. Speed feedback signs make drivers 
more aware of their travel speeds and the need to drive safely. Raised pavement markers and 
rumble strips are physical additions to the roadway to provide better delineation of the roadway 
and to warn drivers of the needs to reduce their speeds. Some of these improvements were 
discussed previously in the safety section of this memorandum. These measures both improve 
safety and increase capacity by reducing incidents and maintaining efficient traffic flow on OR 
126W. 

Other transportation system management strategies focus on transit ridership and carpooling to 
reduce the number of vehicles traveling on OR 126W. Lane Transit District (LTD) Route 93 travels 
along OR 126W. Improvements in the bus, pedestrian, and bicycle facilities will encourage higher 
ridership and reduce the number of vehicles on the roadway. Fewer vehicles on the roadway will 
reduce the congestion and improve the flow of vehicles on the highway. The introduction of 
additional parkandride lots in Veneta and improved rideshare programs would also help in 
reducing single occupancy vehicles. These transit and carpooling improvements are discussed in 
more detail later in this memorandum. 

Expansion of Existing Alignment 
Major improvements could be made to the existing alignment, such as expanding the roadway to 
three or four travel lanes. To the east of Green Hill Road at the end of the study corridor, West 11th 
Avenue has already been identified as project where it will be upgraded to a five lane urban arterial 
with bike lanes. This remains consistent with the addition of one or two more travel lanes on OR 
126W. 
                                                          OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Develop 
                                                                           and Evaluate Alternatives
                                                                                   December 7, 2011
                                                                                         Page 6 of 16

If OR 126W was widened to three travel lanes, then the third travel lane could be used for 
alternating passing lanes or a reversible traffic lane. The alternating passing lanes would consist of 
various segments of OR 126W with two eastbound lanes and one westbound lane, followed by a 
section with one eastbound lane and two westbound lanes. This roadway geometry allows for 
increased capacity and safer passing maneuvers in both directions of travel. A reversible travel lane 
is another option and would accommodate vehicles traveling eastbound in the morning peak and 
westbound in the evening peak. However, a reversible traffic lane would be problematic given the 
rural nature of OR 126W and because the lane would have to be highly access controlled to avoid 
simultaneous use by eastbound and westbound vehicles. 

Alternate Routes 
Constraints within the study corridor include the Coos Bay Rail Line to the south of the highway and 
the Fern Ridge Reservoir to the north that may make it difficult to expand the existing OR 126W 
alignment. In order to increase the capacity while improving the safety and efficiency of the 
roadway, new parallel alternate routes may be desirable. An alternate route could include the 
improvement of existing roadways south of OR 126W, including Perkins Road, Cantrell Road, and 
Ken Nielsen Road. Improving the alignment and cross section of these two routes would provide an 
alternative route for drivers and emergency vehicles. 

Alternate Mobility Standards (AMS) 
The current mobility standard for the highway is a volume to capacity (v/c) ratio of 0.70 since OR 
126W is a designated freight route on a Statewide highway. With upcoming revisions to ODOT 
mobility standards that are planned to take effect January 1, 2012, the v/c ratio will increase to 
0.75. Given the constraints of OR 126W with the Coos  Bay Rail Line and the Fern Ridge Reservoir, it 
might be cost prohibitive to make the necessary roadway improvements to attain the mobility 
standard of 0.75 for the 20year planning horizon. Alternate mobility standards do not improve 
capacity, but could be considered to allow additional congestion from a policy level if supported by 
the community. Therefore, they may be a desired element of the overall corridor management and 
improvement package. For example, with small improvements of turn lanes for the side streets, all 
unsignalized intersections throughout the corridor may be expected to operate at or below a 0.80 
v/c ratio; therefore, this may be a more desirable mobility standard if other improvements on the 
corridor are infeasible. It would also allow future development to be approved that operates at or 
below this new mobility standard. 

Bicycles
Within the study area, OR 126W has shoulders ranging from four to ten feet, but there are no 
existing striped or signed bike facilities. Bicyclists need a safe and convenient route between 
Eugene and Veneta, connection to the Fern Ridge Trail, and access to other land uses and 
recreational areas along the corridor. The shoulders could be widened to accommodate bicyclists, 
but the shoulder widths vary throughout the corridor. Striping could also be used to provide a 
buffer bike lane on the shoulder. Another option may be to provide a parallel bike route south of 
OR 126W; however, roadway improvements would have to be made to Cantrell Road, Perkins Road, 
                                                          OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Develop 
                                                                           and Evaluate Alternatives
                                                                                   December 7, 2011
                                                                                         Page 7 of 16

and Ken Nielsen Road since they are not paved in all locations and flooding also occurs. Both of 
these roadways are connected to OR 126W via Central Road and Huston Road.  

All new bicycle facilities should extend eastward to connect to the Fern Ridge Path since this is an 
established bicycle route in West Eugene. This could be done via bike lanes on OR 126W or a multi
use path. Improved connections between Ed Cone Boulevard (which has bike lanes and connects to 
the Fern Ridge Path) and Crow Road (which is a major cycling route) may also be considered. The 
extension of the Fern Ridge Path from Royal Avenue to Fern Ridge Reservoir is a project that is 
listed with the Central Lane Metropolitan Planning Organization LongRange Projects. A northsouth 
connection between the Fern Ridge Path and Clear Lake Road to the north is also advisable. 

Pedestrians
OR 126W has shoulders ranging from four to ten feet, but there are no existing sidewalks to 
accommodate pedestrians. Along the corridor, users need safe access to various pedestrian 
generators, such as transit stops and the number of businesses located on the westerly section of 
the network between Huston Road and Ellmaker Road. Lane Transit District (LTD) provides public 
transit service between the EugeneSpringfield area and Veneta on OR 126W via Route 93. Most of 
these trips occur during the a.m. and p.m. peak periods on the weekdays, with limited service 
during other hours of the day and on Saturdays. Stops within the study corridor include West 11th 
Avenue and Greenhill Road; OR 126W and Fisher Road; OR 126W and Ellmaker Road; and OR 126W 
and Huston Road. 

Crossing improvements and sidewalks are desirable where there is pedestrian activity, specifically 
near the Ellmaker Road, Central Road, and Fisher Road transit stops and the westerly segment of 
roadway where there are businesses.  

Transit and Carpooling
Lane Transit District (LTD) Route 93 travels along OR 126W and is primarily a commuter bus. Stops 
are located at West 11th Avenue and Greenhill Road; OR 126W and Fisher Road; OR 126W and 
Ellmaker Road; and OR 126W and Huston Road. Improvements to the bus service would help 
reduce the number of single occupancy vehicle (SOV) users between Veneta and Eugene. 

The transit stops in the corridor do not have amenities, such as bus pullouts, landing pads, shelters, 
illumination, or parkandrides, therefore more amenities should also be included for the buses and 
its users. Transit stops need a 100 foot long segment for buses to effectively and safely pull off of 
the high volume traffic roadway to stop. This segment must be also be 10 feet in width from the fog 
line of the roadway and should be constructed of a hard rock material to support the weight of a 
bus and avoid causing roadway deterioration. Moreover, a five by eight feet paved platform 
adjacent to the stop should be provided to allow for riders of all abilities to board. Future transit 
stops should be located on the far side of the intersection traffic signal so that the sight distances 
for right turn movements are not hindered. Also, sidewalks should be constructed for key routes 
between stops to allow for pedestrian access to the bus routes. Street lights would improve 
pedestrian visibility and safety. The installation of these amenities would create a sense of place for 
                                                         OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Develop 
                                                                          and Evaluate Alternatives
                                                                                  December 7, 2011
                                                                                        Page 8 of 16

the bus stops and would make drivers more aware of the presence of pedestrians in the vicinity of 
the roadway. 

Because of the number of business in downtown Eugene and the development potential of western 
Eugene, the introduction of additional or expanded parkandride lots in Veneta would further 
encourage transit usage since parking lots would be readily available. The City currently has a new, 
small parkandride lot in downtown Veneta. The enhancement of rideshare programs would 
further aid in reducing the number of vehicles traveling along OR 126W. 


Overall Transportation Alternatives
Multiple transportation alternatives have been identified to address the capacity, connectivity, and 
safety needs within the study area for the future 2035 planning horizon. The general principles and 
approaches for each alternative are identified followed by the individual components, which consist 
of various combinations of the specific modal improvements identified previously in this 
memorandum. The alternatives being considered include: 
       NoBuild 
       Transportation System Management (TSM) 
       Spot Improvements (with Optional Addition of MultiUse Trail) 
       ThreeLane CrossSection (with Design Option: Causeway on Piers) 
       FourLane CrossSection (with Design Option: Causeway on Piers) 
       Southern Alternate Route or MultiUse Path (or a Combination of the Two) 

No-Build Alternative
The NoBuild Alternative does not introduce any improvements to the OR 126W study corridor. 
There is no additional effort required from ODOT, and projects along the highway are not 
considered a priority. This alternative is required for future National Environmental Policy Act 
(NEPA) documentation and compliance. It will also be used as a baseline to compare to other 
proposed alternatives. As shown in Figure 1, OR 126W currently has two travel lines with shoulders 
ranging from four to ten feet. The locations of existing guardrails, bridges, and leftturn lanes are 
also identified. 
                                                                                                          JEANS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                          ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                          CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                             FISHER RD
                                                                                WIGGINS



                                      JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                                GOBLE LN
                                                                     WILDWOOD RD                                                                                                                         JUDY

                                                                                                                                                                                   126
   BROADWAY                          AVE                                                                                                                                                                 KEN NIELSEN RD




                                                                                                                                                   D
         5TH ST




                                                                                                                                             RAL R
                                                                    HUSTON RD
8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OAK HILL                      CROW RD
                  TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                                            CENT
                                     BOLTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W RD
                                CHENEY DR                                                                                                                            CANTRELL RD                                CANTRELL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CRO
                                                                                                                        PERKINS RD




                                                    Existing Typical OR 126W Cross-Section                                                                                           Additional Existing Cross-Section Elements
                                                                                                                                                                                          Widens for Left-Turn Lanes

                                                                                                                                                                                          Bridge
                                                                                                                                                                                          Guardrail

                                                   Varies      4' - 10'                  12'                           12'       4' - 10'                Varies
                                                 Side Slope/   Shoulder              Travel Lane                   Travel Lane   Shoulder              Side Slope/
                                                 Clear Zone                                                                                            Clear Zone
                                                                                                          Varies
                                                                                                        ROW Varies
                                                                                                            C
                                                                                                            L




LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Figure                    1
                                    OR 126W Study Area                                                        City Limit                                                                                           NO-BUILD ALTERNATIVE
                                    Railroad                                                                  Park

                                                                                                                                                              NO SCALE
                                                           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Develop 
                                                                            and Evaluate Alternatives
                                                                                    December 7, 2011
                                                                                         Page 10 of 16


Transportation System Management (TSM) Conceptual Alternative
The Transportation System Management (TSM) Conceptual Alternative optimizes the management 
of the current infrastructure. This alternative focuses exclusively on lowcost, easy to implement 
improvements or policies. It could also be considered as a shortterm solution that results in 
immediate, visible improvements on the roadway. Many of its concepts could also be included in 
the other alternatives. 

As shown in Figure 2, this alternative maintains the existing OR 126W crosssection but introduces 
TSM strategies, such as improved illumination and delineation, advance intersection sign, speed 
feedback signs, and alternate mobility standards to improve the safety and efficiency of the 
roadway. There is also a focus on increasing transit ridership through the introduction of parkand
ride lots and enhanced rideshare programs. The inclusion of access management strategies and 
alternative mobility standards will also aid in improving the functionality of the roadway. 

Spot Improvements Conceptual Alternative
The Spot Improvements Conceptual Alternative focuses on safety improvements for all users 
throughout the corridor. There are also mobility benefits associated with increased safety on the 
roadway. As presented in Figure 3, this alternative introduces left and right turn lanes and traffic 
signal installations at Huston Road, Ellmaker Road, Central Road, and Ken Nielsen Road. Other spot 
improvements would accommodate transit and emergency services. A multiuse path for other 
modes of transportation should also be considered a potential addition to this alternative to 
improve safety by separating vehicular and nonvehicular traffic. Many of these improvements may 
also be included in the other alternatives. 

Three-Lane Cross-Section Conceptual Alternative
The ThreeLane CrossSection Conceptual Alternative, shown in Figure 4, provides necessary 
mobility improvements by increasing the OR 126W footprint to accommodate an additional travel 
lane as well as wider shoulders or bike lanes. The introduction of a third lane provides more 
capacity on the roadway, and this lane could be used as a left turn lane, alternating passing lane, or 
reversible traffic lane. System management and spot improvements could also be implemented as 
applicable. 

This alternative would likely require the acquisition of land to the north and/or south of OR 126W. 
A component of this alternative could be to construct a singlelevel elevated structure for the three
lane facility that travels over environmentally sensitive areas. Pedestrian and bicycle facilities could 
be provided on this roadway, or they could be separated from vehicular travel on a lower level of 
the structure. 
                                                                                                          JEANS RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SPEED

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                          ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                          CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                 FISHER RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  YOUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SPEED


                                                                                WIGGINS



                                      JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                                            GOBLE LN
                                                                     WILDWOOD RD                                                                                                                             JUDY

                                                                                                                                                                                     126
   BROADWAY                          AVE                                                                                                                                                                     KEN NIELSEN RD




                                                                                                                                                   D
         5TH ST




                                                                                                                                             RAL R
                                                                    HUSTON RD
8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OAK HILL                      CROW RD
                  TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                                            CENT
                                                                                                         SPEED
                                     BOLTON RD
                                                                                                         55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W RD
                                CHENEY DR                                                                YOUR                                                        CANTRELL RD                                    CANTRELL RD
                                                                                                         SPEED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CRO
                                                                                                                        PERKINS RD




                                                    Existing Typical OR 126W Cross-Section                                                                                          Optional TSM Improvements (At Various
                                                                                                                                                                                    Locations or Along Full Length)
                                                                                                                                                                                      Edge and Centerline Delineation
                                                                                                                                                                                        - Raised Markers/Rumble Strips
                                                                                                                                                                                        - Reflectors on Guardrails
                                                                                                                                                                                      Advanced Intersection Guide Signage
                                                   Varies      4' - 10'                  12'                           12'       4' - 10'                Varies
                                                 Side Slope/   Shoulder              Travel Lane                   Travel Lane   Shoulder              Side Slope/                    Speed Feedback Signs
                                                 Clear Zone                                                                                            Clear Zone
                                                                                                          Varies                                                                      Variable Speed Limit Signs
                                                                                                        ROW Varies                                                                      - 35 to 45 mph Congested Speed
                                                                                                            C
                                                                                                            L
                                                                                                                                                                                        - 55 mph Non-Congested Speed
                                                                Cross-Section Elements                                                                                                Increased Transit Ridership and Carpools
                                                                                                                                                                                        - Park-and-Ride Lot
                                                                                     Existing Left-Turn Lanes
                                                                                                                                                                                        - Improved Pedestrian Access and Other Transit
                                                                                     Existing Bridge                                                                                      Stop Enhancements
                                                                                     Existing Guardrail                                                                                 - Rideshare Program
                                                                                                                                                                                      Alternate Mobility Standards
                                                                                     Existing Transit Stop
                                                                                                                                                                                      Access Management Strategies
LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Figure                    2
                                    OR 126W Study Area                                                        City Limit                                                      TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM MANAGEMENT (TSM)
                                    Railroad                                                                  Park                                                                            CONCEPTUAL ALTERNATIVE
                                                                                                                                                              NO SCALE
                                                                                                JEANS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FISHER RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WB Left-Turn Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    at Ken Nielsen Rd
                                     EB Left-Turn Lanes and/orWIGGINS
                                                              Access                                                                                           EB Left-Turn Lanes and/or Access
                                     Management at Driveways                                                                                                   Management at Driveways
                                                                                                         Standard WB Right-Turn
                                                                                                         Lane at Ellmaker Rd
                                      JEANS RD
                                                            WILDWOOD RD                                                                                                                                                        JUDY

                                                                                                                                                                                       126
   BROADWAY                          AVE                                                                                                                                                                                         KEN NIELSEN RD




                                                                                                                                          D
         5TH ST




                                                                                                                                    RAL R
                                                           HUSTON RD
8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OAK HILL                   CROW RD
                  TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                                  CENT
                                     BOLTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W RD
                                                                          Potential Traffic Signals and/or
                                CHENEY DR                                 Raised Roadway Elevation                                             CANTRELL RD                                                                            CANTRELL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CRO
                                                                          Due to Proximity and Higher
                                                                          Elevation of RR Tracks
                                                                                               PERKINS RD




                                           Spot Improvements Cross-Section with Optional Multi-Use Trail

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * left-turn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Spot improvements may include
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lanes ( ), right-turn

                                     *                                                         *                                *                                     * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lanes ( ), traffic signals ( ),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             limited passing lanes,and wider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             shoulders, especially where
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             current shoulders are only 4 feet
                             12' (min.)                                  Varies               8' - 10'           12'             16'                 12'       12' Right-Turn Lane/ 8' - 10'           Varies                                wide. A multi-use trail alongside
                          Improved Surface
                                                                       Side Slope/            Shoulder       Travel Lane   Left-Turn Lane        Travel Lane   10' Bus Pull-Out    Shoulder and/or
                                                                                                                                                                                    Landing Pad
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Side Slope/                             the highway ( ) would also be
                                                                       Clear Zone                                                                                                                    Clear Zone
                                                                                                                                Varies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a potential addition to the
                                      C
                                      L
                                                                                                                             ROW Varies                                                                                                      corridor. In addition, transit stop
                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                                  L                                                                                                          improvements ( ) may include
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             far-side bus stop relocations,
   Cross-Section Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                                    bus pullouts, landing pads, and
                                    Existing Left-Turn Lanes                                              Existing Typical Two-Lane Cross-Section (with Potential                                                                            pedestrian crossing treatments.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Emergency turnarounds and
                                                                                                          Addition of Multi-Use Trail)
                                    Existing Bridge                                                                                                                                                                                          police pull-offs may also be
                                    Existing Guardrail                                                    Potential Traffic Signal and/or Raised Roadway Elevation                                                                           provided on the side of the road
                                                                                                          (Due to Proximity of RR Tracks)                                                                                                    at select locations.
                                    Existing Transit Stop

LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Figure                    3
                                    OR 126W Study Area                                              City Limit                                                                                                                     SPOT IMPROVEMENTS
                                    Railroad                                                        Park                                                                                                                       CONCEPTUAL ALTERNATIVE
                                                                                                                                              NO SCALE
                                                                                                        JEANS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                          ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                        CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                       FISHER RD
                                                                                WIGGINS



                                       JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                         GOBLE LN
                                                                     WILDWOOD RD                                                                                                                   JUDY

                                                                                                                                                                               126
    BROADWAY                          AVE                                                                                                                                                          KEN NIELSEN RD




                                                                                                                                           D
          5TH ST




                                                                                                                                     RAL R
                                                                    HUSTON RD
8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OAK HILL                      CROW RD
                   TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                                   CENT
                                      BOLTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W RD
                                 CHENEY DR                                                                                                      CANTRELL RD                                               CANTRELL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CRO
                                                                                                                    PERKINS RD




                                                                                Typical Three-Lane Cross-Section                                                                                                 Design Option:
                                                                                       (Causeway on Dike)                                                                                                      Causeway on Piers


                                                                                                                     *
                                                  Varies      8' - 10'                     12'                        16'           12'          8' - 10'         Varies
                                                Side Slope/   Shoulder/               Travel Lane                  Travel Lane   Travel Lane     Shoulder/       Side Slope/
                                                Clear Zone    Bike Lane                                                                          Bike Lane       Clear Zone
                                                                                                                  56' - 60'                                                                           A causeway on piers is an optional
                                                                                                                 ROW Varies
                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                     L
                                                                                                                                                                                                      design feature that may be used over
                                                                                                                                                                                                      environmentally sensitive areas.
*   The additional center travel lane may be used for passing lanes in alternating directions or a reversible
    travel lane that serves eastbound traffic in the morning and westbound traffic in the evening. Left-turn
    lanes at select intersections may be included in the three-lane cross-section or added as a fourth lane.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pedestrian and bicycle facilities may be
                                                                                                                                                                                                      included on the structure or provided on
                                                                                                                                                                                                      a lower level on the side of the structure.

         Cross-Section Elements
                                      Existing Left-Turn Lanes                                                   Existing Guardrail                          Existing Bridge

LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Figure                    4
                                     OR 126W Study Area                                                     City Limit                                                                  THREE-LANE CROSS-SECTION
                                     Railroad                                                               Park                                                                 WITH OPTIONAL CAUSEWAY ON PIERS
                                                                                                                                               NO SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                         CONCEPTUAL ALTERNATIVE
                                                         OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Develop 
                                                                          and Evaluate Alternatives
                                                                                  December 7, 2011
                                                                                       Page 14 of 16


Four-Lane Cross-Section Conceptual Alternative
The FourLane CrossSection Conceptual Alternative, presented in Figure 5, provides for significant 
mobility improvements with a large footprint for OR 126W. This alternative would also include the 
potential for a singlelevel elevated structure for the fourlane facility that travels over 
environmentally sensitive areas. 

The four lane cross section would likely require additional right of way. The expanded roadway 
would include center leftturn lanes in place of the median at applicable intersections. To the east 
of the study corridor, the City of Eugene has identified a project for the upgrade of West 11th 
Avenue to a five lane urban arterial with bike lanes; therefore, expansion of OR 126W is consistent 
with other projects in the area. Transportation system management and spot improvements could 
also be implemented as applicable. 

Southern Alternate Route or Multi-Use Path Conceptual Alternative
The Southern Alternate Route or MultiUse Path Conceptual Alternative provides an alternate route 
for motor vehicles and/or multimodal users to the south of OR 126W. OR 126W would retain its 
twolane crosssection, and current alignment. The alternate route would have two to three lanes 
and would be along Perkins Road and Cantrell Road as shown in Figure 6. This alternate route would 
also include bike lanes. Feedback has also been provided by the public that diverting to Ken Nielsen 
Road on the east end of the alternate route corridor would be preferred to avoid the rolling hills on 
Cantrell Road. 

An optional multiuse path for nonmotorized modes of transportation could also be introduced 
either instead of or in addition to the improved roadways. This path could run alongside the 
proposed southern alternate route and extend east of the study corridor to connect to the Fern 
Ridge Path. 
                                                                                                             JEANS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                               ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                             CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                FISHER RD
                                                                                   WIGGINS



                                        JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                                                  GOBLE LN
                                                                        WILDWOOD RD                                                                                                                                         JUDY

                                                                                                                                                                                                        126
   BROADWAY                            AVE                                                                                                                                                                                  KEN NIELSEN RD




                                                                                                                                                         D
           5TH ST




                                                                                                                                                   RAL R
                                                                       HUSTON RD
8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OAK HILL                      CROW RD
                    TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RD
                                                                                                                                                CENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OW
                                       BOLTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CR
                                  CHENEY DR                                                                                                                    CANTRELL RD                                                         CANTRELL RD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5-Lane Roadway Upgrade
                                                                                                                            PERKINS RD                                                                                                                with Bike Lanes has been
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      identified by the City of Eugene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      for OR 126 between Green Hill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Road and Terry Street



                                                                                          Typical Four-Lane Cross-Section                                                       *                                                              Design Option:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Causeway on Piers

                                                                                                                                *
                                              Varies       8' - 10'                     12'                           12'        8'          12'                12'           8' - 10'     Varies
                                             Side Slope/   Shoulder/                 Travel Lane              Travel Lane      Median     Travel Lane        Travel Lane      Shoulder/   Side Slope/
                                             Clear Zone    Bike Lane                                                                                                          Bike Lane   Clear Zone
                                                                                                                              72' - 76'                                                                                          A causeway on piers is an optional
                                                                                                                             ROW Varies                                                                                            design feature that may be used over
                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                                  L                                                                                                environmentally sensitive areas.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pedestrian and bicycle facilities may be
*        The four-lane cross-section would include a center left-turn lane (16 feet wide) in place of the
         median at applicable intersections.                                                                                                                                                                                       included on the structure or provided on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a lower level on the side of the structure.

         Cross-Section Elements
                                       Existing Left-Turn Lanes                                                        Existing Guardrail                                  Existing Bridge

LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Figure                       5
                                      OR 126W Study Area                                                         City Limit                                                                                       FOUR-LANE CROSS-SECTION
                                      Railroad                                                                   Park                                                                                     WITH OPTIONAL CAUSEWAY ON PIERS
                                                                                                                                                             NO SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONCEPTUAL ALTERNATIVE
                                                                                                      JEANS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                      ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                      CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                             FISHER RD
                                                                            WIGGINS



                                      JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                                  GOBLE LN
                                                                 WILDWOOD RD                                                                                                                             JUDY

                                                                                                                                                                                       126
   BROADWAY                          AVE                                                                                                                                                                 KEN NIELSEN RD




                                                                                                                                          D
         5TH ST




                                                                                                                                    RAL R
                                                                HUSTON RD
8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OAK HILL
                  TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                                   CENT
                                     BOLTON RD                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Extend Multi-Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Path to Fern Ridge




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Path (Conceptual
                                CHENEY DR                                                                                                               CANTRELL RD                                              CANTRELL RD                                       Alignment)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CRO
                                                                                                                 PERKINS RD




                                                                            Typical Two/Three-Lane Cross-Section                                                                                                      Optional Multi-Use Path




                                                                                                                      *
                                                 Varies         8'                                  12'                14'                    12'               8'        Varies                                                   12' (min.)

                                               Side Slope/   Shoulder/                 Travel Lane                Left-Turn Lane          Travel Lane        Shoulder/   Side Slope/                                             Improved Surface
                                               Clear Zone    Bike Lane                                                                                       Bike Lane   Clear Zone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ROW Varies
                                                                                                                     54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                                 ROW Varies
                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                     L                                                                                       The multi-use path would be for non-
         *    The cross-section may include left-turn lanes at select intersections.                                                                                                                            motorized use only and could be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                constructed in addition to or instead of the
           Cross-Section Elements                                                                                                                                                                               roadway improvements on Perkins and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cantrell Roads. Other options for the path's
                                        Existing Bridge                                                            Existing Typical Two-Lane Cross-Section                                                      alignment would be to construct it parallel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                to the existing roadways or divert it to Ken
                                        Existing Guardrail                                                         Existing Left-Turn Lanes                                                                     Nielsen Road.


LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Figure                  6
                                    OR 126W Study Area                                                    City Limit                                                              SOUTHERN ALTERNATE ROUTE OR
                                    Railroad                                                              Park                                                           MULTI-USE PATH CONCEPTUAL ALTERNATIVE
                                                                                                                                                    NO SCALE
                                    Appendix




OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan        P09042019 
OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                                                        



 


ACCESS MANAGEMENT PLAN 
The application of access management tools within the OR 126W study corridor can be a key 
element in providing for improved operational safety and efficiency. This section describes how the 
improved management of access could benefit users of OR 126W between Veneta and Eugene, 
which is part of the OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan, and also provides short, medium, and long 
range strategies to be used as a guide during future development plans and street improvement 
projects. The access management plan provided is intended to help implement existing rules and 
regulations pertaining to property access in the study corridor. 

Access Management Overview
Access management is the term used to describe a broad 
set of techniques that balance the need to provide safe, 
efficient, and timely travel with the ability to allow access 
to individual properties. On facilities such as freeways 
and expressways, there is generally an emphasis on 
facilitating the through movement of traffic, with direct 
property access being a secondary objective. However, 
for streets of lower functional classification such as 
collectors and local streets, the emphasis shifts to 
prioritize direct property access. 

For the entire length of the study corridor, OR 126W is 
designated as a Statewide Highway and Freight Route by 
ODOT. It is also part of the National Highway System. OR 126W is a twolane roadway with leftturn 
lanes at key intersections throughout the network, and the highway has a posted speed limit of 55 
miles per hour. For the westernmost section of the study corridor between Huston Road and 
Ellmaker Road, there are multiple, closely spaced driveways for commercial businesses. With new 
legislative direction for access management as presented in Senate Bill 264, there is now a shift 
towards balancing transportation needs while encouraging economic development by providing 
reasonable access to private properties. The remaining section of the corridor between Ellmaker 
Road and Green Hill Road is more rural and has fewer accesses, with most driveways providing 
access to local residences. 

Benefits for OR 126W Businesses and Local Users
The benefits of access management for through traffic have been well documented and are 
generally well understood: fewer vehicles entering and exiting the traveled way translates to fewer 
slowdowns and opportunities for collisions as well as less queuing and congestion problems, 
leading to improvements in travel times and safety. While this is often thought to occur at the 
expense of access to properties, a corridor with wellplanned access management can have many 
benefits to area businesses, local users, and through traffic.  




 




Access Management Plan                                                                   Page 1 of 11 
October 2011 
OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                                                                  



 
Safety
An uncoordinated pattern of frequent property access along a highway introduces a number of 
potential conflicts for drivers where vehicle paths could cross and where collisions could occur. 
These turning movement conflicts are often the causes of slowing or stopping vehicles, and can 
significantly degrade the flow of traffic and reduce the efficiency of the transportation system. 
Drivers can be overwhelmed by conflict points in close proximity to one another, increasing the 
potential for collisions. 

Implementing access management minimizes the number of vehicle conflict points by reducing the 
overall number of access points and providing greater separation between them. In the study area, 
this problem is most prevalent in the roadway segment between Huston Road and Ellmaker Road, 
where the average spacing between the 13 driveways is approximately 220 feet. Figure 1 illustrates 
this concept, where consolidation of two closely spaced driveways results in a reduction of conflict 
points of more than 50%. 




                               Figure 1 Conflict Point Reduction with Driveway Consolidation
 
Research throughout the country has shown that arterials with well managed access control are 
often 40 to 50 percent safer than poorly managed ones.1 In a national transportation study that 
reviewed nearly 40,000 collisions, a clear relationship was found between the number of access 
points per mile and the rate of collisions that occur on a given roadway. The rate of collisions more 
than doubles when the access density is increased from 10 access points per mile to 40 (i.e., roughly 
equivalent to decreasing average access spacing from 1,000 feet to 250 feet). This shows that 
increasing the spacing between access points and providing greater separation between vehicle 
conflicts will reduce the number and variety of events to which drivers must respond, translating 
into fewer accidents and shorter delays.  

To see how the OR 126W study corridor compares to the results of the national study, the existing 
access inventory was evaluated for four segments of OR 126W: 1) Huston Road to Ellmaker Road, 2) 
Ellmaker Road to Central Road, 3) Central Road to Fisher Road, and 4) Fisher Road to Green Hill 
Road. The number of access points compared to the collisions experienced in each segment is 
shown in Table 1. 



                                                            
1
  Preston, H., et al. Statistical Relationship between Vehicular Crashes and Highway Access, Minnesota Department 
of Transportation, Report MNRC199827, August 1998. 
 




Access Management Plan                                                                               Page 2 of 11 
October 2011 
OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                                                                        



 
                               Table 1 OR 126W Access Density vs. Collisions
                                                                                    Collision Rate
                                                                                                        Average
    OR 126W Highway Segment                          Accesses Collisions             (per million
                                            Distance                                                    Approach
    (Highway and Milepoints)                         Per Milea (2005-2009)          Vehicle-Miles
                                                                                                         Spacing
                                                                                      Traveled)c

    Huston Rd to Ellmaker Rd (Florence-                                                                  220 ft (N)
                                            0.59 mi.       22            20               1.43
     Eugene MP 47.84 to 48.43)                                                                               -

    Ellmaker Rd to Central Rd (Florence-                                                                2,320 ft (N)
                                            1.32 mi.        2            22               0.77
      Eugene MP 48.43 to 49.75)                                                                         3,480 ft (S)

    Central Rd to Fisher Rd (Florence-                                                                  1,380 ft (N)
                                            2.35 mi.        4            41               0.65
     Eugene MP 49.75 to 52.10)                                                                          6,200 ft (S)
    Fisher Rd to Green Hill Rd (Florence-                                                               1,970 ft (N)
      Eugene MP 52.10 to 52.69 and          1.87 mi.        5            41               0.89
      Beltline MP 0.00 to 1.28)                                                                         1,410 ft (S)

    Entire Study Corridor (Florence-                                                                    1,040 ft (N)
     Eugene MP 47.84 to 52.69 and           6.13 mi.       7b           124               0.82
     Beltline MP 0.00 to 1.28)                                                                          3,240 ft (S)
    a
      Accesses (both public and private) counted separately for north and south sides of OR 126W.
    b
      The four intermediate streets (i.e., Ellmaker Road, the Perkins Peninsula County Park access, and Fisher Road
      on the north and Central Road on the south) were added to these totals because they were not otherwise
      accounted for.
    c
      Collision Rate = (collisions*1,000,000) / (years*365 days*segment length*AADT), where AADT = annual average
      daily traffic.
 
As shown in Table 1, the 0.59 segment of OR 126W between Huston Road and Ellmaker Road has 
about 22 access points per mile, including both Huston Road and Ellmaker Road. The collision rate 
for this section between 2005 and 2009 was 1.43 collisions per million vehiclemiles traveled (VMT), 
which is approximately double the rate of  other sections along the OR 126W study corridor, which 
are more rural in nature and have less access density. Therefore, there appears to be a relationship 
between access density and the rate of collisions experienced in the study corridor, which suggests 
that improvements to corridor safety can be made through the reduction in access points to OR 
126W.  

Pedestrian and Bicycle
Roadways with wellmanaged access also provide a safer and more comfortable walking and cycling 
environment. With fewer access points along the highway, pedestrians and cyclists are exposed to 
traffic less frequently, resulting in fewer conflict points between motor vehicles, pedestrians, and 
cyclists. Also, even the limited use of medians can provide refuges to facilitate bicycle and 
pedestrian highway crossings between traffic signals. Within the study area, OR 126W has 
shoulders ranging from four to ten feet, but there are no existing sidewalks or striped or signed bike 
facilities. However, on highspeed facilities such as OR 126W, a separated pedestrian and bicycle 
pathway would provide greater safety for users. 




 




Access Management Plan                                                                                  Page 3 of 11 
October 2011 
OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                                                                   



 
Business
Streets that are viewed as being frequently congested or unsafe to travel can be a deterrent to 
potential customers and can create a negative image for a shopping center or business.2 In contrast, 
the improved level of safety and traffic flow on streets with wellmanaged access to abutting 
businesses creates a better experience for customers and can even increase the potential market 
area.  

"Before and After" studies of businesses in other states along highway corridors where access 
management projects were completed found that most businesses did as well or better after the 
projects. As examples: 
        More than 70% of the businesses impacted by a project in Florida involving several median 
        opening closures reported no change in property value, while 13% reported some increase in 
        value. 3 

        A study of Kansas properties impacted by access changes found that the majority were 
        suitable for the same types of commercial uses after the project was completed. This was 
        true even for businesses that had direct access before the project and access only via 
        frontage roads after the project completion.4 

        A study of property values on corridors in Texas with access management projects found 
        that land values stayed the same or increased, with very few exceptions. 5  

Fewer access points also provide for more property frontage, which could be used for merchandise 
displays, landscaping to improve the appearance of the corridor, or additional parking stalls. 
However, the implementation of access management might also have negative effects. If accesses 
to business are not readily available to drivers and force them to travel long distances out of 
direction, users will be less willing to frequent these sites. Without careful planning, access 
management can prove detrimental to businesses. 

Access Management Plan
The purpose of a corridor level Access Management Plan is to provide short, medium, and long 
range strategies for accommodating access as property develops or as public improvement projects 
are constructed. Most improvements will occur incrementally over time. The goal of the plan is to 
provide clear direction and ensure progress is made toward improving the management of access in 
the corridor, while allowing sufficient flexibility to accommodate future development plans. 
Successful implementation will require continued collaboration between neighboring property 
owners and ODOT staff. 
                                                            
2
   Urban Land Institute, Shopping Center Development Handbook, Second Edition, Washington D.C., 1985, p. 101. 
3
   Vargas, F.A and Y. Guatam, Problem: Roadway Safety vs. Commercial Development Access, ITE, Compendium of 
Technical Papers, 1989. 
4
   Rees, M., T. Orrick, and R. Marx, Police Power Regulation of Highway Access and Traffic Flow in the State of 
Kansas, presentation, 79th Annual Meeting of the Transportation Research Board, Washington D.C., January 10, 
2000. 
5
   Eisele, W. and W. Frawley, A Methodology for Determining Economic Impacts of Raised Medians: Data Analysis 
on Additional Case Studies, Research Report 39043, Texas Transportation Institute, College Station, Texas, October 
1999.
 




Access Management Plan                                                                                Page 4 of 11 
October 2011 
OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                                                       



 
Access Objectives
To provide a basis for decisionmaking during the development of the access management plan and 
to guide future policy decisions for the study area, a set of access management objectives was 
established by ODOT. These objectives were intended to reflect the 1999 Oregon Highway Plan 
(OHP), as well as current practices, policies, and regulations pertaining to the management of 
access to OR 126W. The following objectives are used as guidelines for Statewide Rural Highways 
and may not be applicable in all instances: 
    1. Create shared access points to reduce the overall number of accesses along the corridor. 
    2. Provide interparcel circulation through crossover easements, frontage or backage roads, 
       shared parking lots, or connecting driveways, where feasible. 
    3. Utilize easements, frontage/backage roads, and other streets to allow for secondary access 
       to facilitate large truck and emergency service vehicle circulation. 
    4. Recognizing that OR 126W is designated as a State Freight Route and Federal Truck Route, 
       highway modifications shall not reduce the through capacity of the highway. The mobility 
       standard for the highway is a v/c ratio of 0.70. 
    5. Ensure that all properties are provided reasonable access to the public street network. 
    6. Per Policy 3B.3 of the 1999 Oregon Highway Plan (as amended), consideration shall be given 
       to installation of nontraversable medians. With the introduction of Senate Bill 264, non
       traversable medians are only to be considered if all other mitigation measures were not 
       effective or available. 
    7. Meet ODOT's access management spacing standards for Statewide Highways, as 
       documented in Senate Bill 264 (to be adopted in January 2012). In the study area, OR 126W 
       is a Statewide Highway that travels through a Rural Area with a speed limit of 55 miles per 
       hour. Therefore, the access spacing standard is 1,320 feet measured from the center of an 
       approach to the center of the nearest approach on the same side of the highway in both 
       directions. When a nontraversable median is present with only a righthand or lefthand 
       turn into and from the approach, the standard is onehalf of the 1,320 feet. The average 
       spacing for the roadway segments in the study are presented in Table 2. In addition, the 
       access locations along the study corridor are shown in Figure 2 of Technical Memorandum 
       #8 (Future Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis), which was previously prepared as part of 
       the OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan. 
                                




 




Access Management Plan                                                                   Page 5 of 11 
October 2011 
OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                                                                         



 
                                 Table 2 Study Area Access Management Spacing

                                      Side of                                Accessesa
    Segment
                                       Road          Streets     Driveways        Total        Average Spacing

    Huston Rd to Ellmaker Rd           North            0             13            13                220
     (0.59 mi.)                        South            0             0             0                   -

    Ellmaker Rd to Central Rd          North            2             0             2                1,950
      (1.32 mi.)                       South            0             1             1                2,930

    Central Rd to Fisher Rd            North            0             8             8                1,380
     (2.35 mi.)                        South            0             1             1                6,200

    Fisher Rd to Green Hill Rd         North            3             1             4                1,970
      (1.87 mi.)                       South            1             5             6                1,410
                                                         b                              b
    Entire Study Corridor              North            8             22           30                1,010
     (6.13 mi.)                        South            2b
                                                                      7             9b
                                                                                                     3,130
    a
        Accesses (both public and private) counted separately for north and south sides of OR 126W.
    b
        The four intermediate streets (i.e., Ellmaker Road, the Perkins Peninsula County Park access, and Fisher
        Road on the north and Central Road on the south) were added to these totals because they were not otherwise
        accounted for.
 
As seen in Table 2, the majority of driveways are located along the north side of OR 126W. The 
primary reason is because the Coos Bay Rail Line is located fifty feet south of the highway. The 
greatest access density is found along the western portion of the corridor, where the accesses have 
an average spacing of 220 feet. This value is significantly smaller than the access spacing standard of 
1320 feet from the Oregon Highway Plan. The remainder of the corridor has appropriate spacing 
between accesses. Therefore, the greatest concerns for accessrelated safety occur between 
Huston Road and Ellmaker Road. 

Policy 3 of the OHP focuses on access management with a specific emphasis on spacing standards 
and medians. This focus on access management is implemented through Oregon Access 
Management Rule (OAR 734051), whose purpose is to maintain the efficiency of state highways 
while ensuring safety and preserving resource lands. Senate Bill 264 was passed by the 2011 Oregon 
Legislature and will result in some modification in access management by ODOT. These changes will 
be effective January 2012 and will also be reflected in OAR 734051. The spacing standards 
recommended for OR 126 in Senate Bill 264 are consistent with the standards that are in the 
Oregon Highway Plan. 

                                         




 




Access Management Plan                                                                                      Page 6 of 11 
October 2011 
OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                                                          



 
Access Management Tools
To address the access management objectives applicable to OR 126W, a collection of potential 
mitigation tools and measures are provided below. While not all applications will be appropriate for 
various portions of the study area, this list will provide a menu of options for consideration.  

Frontage and Backage Roads
A frontage road or backage 
road is a type of service road 
that runs parallel to a major 
roadway and provides 
alternative access to 
properties. Where the service 
road runs between the major 
roadway and the abutting 
development, it is commonly 
referred to as a frontage road. 
However, when the service 
road runs behind the abutting 
development, it is referred to 
as a backage road.  

Direct property access is provided along the frontage or backage road, rather than from the major 
roadway. This allows the major roadway to better serve through traffic with fewer disruptions, 
while the ingress and egress for abutting properties can occur from a lowerspeed, lowervolume 
facility. A key element in frontage/backage road planning is the design and location of connections 
to and from the major roadway or side streets. 

The westernmost section of the study corridor between Huston and Ellmaker Road has multiple, 
closely spaced driveways, which primarily serve local businesses. A backage road parallel to OR 
126W may be a desirable solution for improving traffic flow and safety along this section of OR 
126W. For example, Wildwood Road is an existing Lane County roadway 600 feet to the north. By 
connecting the properties along OR 126W to Wildwood Road, local connections would be provided 
to the properties. This additional access to these properties would reduce the need for local traffic 
to use OR 126W and allow more flexibility in implementing access management techniques along 
OR 126W. 

Frontage and backage roads must be designed to accommodate emergency vehicles and large 
trucks. To satisfy these requirements without placing limitations on the development potential of 
adjacent properties, the typical rightofway (ROW) or joint access easement width reserved for 
these roadways should be 36 feet, including a minimum of 26 feet from curb to curb and provision 
for a fivefoot wide sidewalk, as shown in Figure 2. The location of the frontage or backage road 
with respect to other public roadways and individual site development features may impact 
whether or not sidewalks are needed on both sides of the roadway or just on one side and may 
alter the buffer requirements. Decisions regarding the final required cross section for frontage and 
backage roads will be made by ODOT through development review.  

 




Access Management Plan                                                                     Page 7 of 11 
October 2011 
OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                                                      



 




                                                                                   
                    Figure 2 Frontage/Backage Road Typical Cross-Section
 
Shared/Consolidated Access Points
A common method of reducing approach 
density is to eliminate multiple approaches to a 
single property where feasible. This can be 
done where it has been determined that the 
property can adequately be served with fewer 
approaches than it currently maintains. 
However, where existing site circulation or 
building locations create a dependency for the 
preexisting highway access, the ability to 
change site access may require total or partial 
site redevelopment. 

Sharing an approach to the highway is a means of consolidating approaches while providing direct 
access to properties that might not otherwise have it. This tool is most advantageous when applied 
between two "landlocked" properties that have no other means of reasonable access than to the 
highway. Such properties would typically be provided their own approach. However, when a shared 
approach can be arranged, the end result is only one approach to the highway rather than two.  

Because such arrangements require the establishment of access easements, which represent an 
encumbrance on the property, this can be a difficult tool to apply. Also, because easements can be 
voided later by the property owners, the longterm success of these arrangements is uncertain. 
Because of this, it is often easiest to establish shared approaches where the local development code 
enables that requirement and it can be made a condition of approval. However, care should be 
taken to ensure adjacent land uses are compatible and that safe vehicular circulation can be 
provided. 

Inter-Parcel Circulation
When access is provided to allow vehicles to pass between adjacent properties without using the 
highway, unnecessary conflicts are removed. Vehicles using the highway for crosscirculation 
between adjacent properties can be particularly hazardous as such drivers often drive the wrong 
 




Access Management Plan                                                                   Page 8 of 11 
October 2011 
OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                                                        



 
way in travel lanes and utilize very small gaps in 
traffic because they perceive that they will only be 
on the highway for a short time. 

Similar to the establishment of shared approaches, 
the provision of crosscirculation requires the 
establishment of access easements between 
properties and can therefore be difficult to achieve. 
Because such arrangements affect site circulation, 
the requirement for crosscirculation is best applied 
during design review for new developments. 

When locating and designing interparcel roadways, consistent treatments should be applied across 
adjacent properties to facilitate passage over multiple lots. This should include using a consistent 
roadway width and providing a common alignment where feasible (near the rear of the property 
away from the highway approaches is generally preferred). 

Turning Restrictions
The number of conflict points on the highway 
introduced by a particular approach can be 
significantly reduced by restricting turn 
movements, such as allowing only rightin and 
rightout movements, allowing only rightin 
movements, or prohibiting only leftout 
movements, as shown in the graphic.  

Such restrictions are commonly applied through 
the construction of nontraversable median 
barriers and "pork chop" islands in the approach 
throat. Due to high violation rates, "pork chop" 
treatments should only be used in conjunction with 
median barriers, as shown in the graphic. Also, the 
use of pork chop islands to compliment median barriers may allow for smaller median barrier 
designs ­ potentially avoiding blockage of nearby approaches. 

Turn Lane Installations
OR 126W is a twolane roadway with few turn lanes, therefore considerations should be made for 
the installation of leftturn, rightturn, or twowayleftturn lanes due to the increased potential for 
accidents in the through lanes. However, it is potentially dangerous to provide a twowayleftturn 
lane for closely spaced driveways on a high speed facility because of the increased turning 
movement conflicts. Turn lane installations could provide an area for vehicle storage, which 
improves the overall safety of the highways with its higher travel speeds and traffic volumes. This 
could be implemented through restriping in areas where physical medians or barriers do not 
currently exist. 



 




Access Management Plan                                                                    Page 9 of 11 
October 2011 
OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                                                             



 
Public Street Connectivity
As a Statewide Highway, the intended function of OR 126W is primarily for safe and efficient 
passage for through traffic. Therefore, direct property access should be taken from facilities of a 
lower classification, such as minor arterials, collectors, or local streets. This, in turn, lessens the 
number of potential conflict points on the highway and moves them to a lower speed, lower 
volume roadway where they can be more easily accommodated. 

This treatment is often a good option for properties that have frontage along an alternate roadway 
of a lower functional classification. However, where existing site circulation or building locations 
create a dependency for the preexisting highway access, the ability to change site access may 
require total or partial site redevelopment. Also, before access is reestablished to a side street, it 
should be confirmed that there would be adequate separation between the new driveway and the 
intersection with the highway to avoid turning conflicts or frequent obstruction by vehicle queues. 
It should also be verified that the side street intersection with the highway has sufficient capacity to 
accommodate the added site traffic. 

Access Management Strategies
Using the previously discussed mitigation tools, short, medium, and longrange strategies have 
been identified for a future access management on OR 126W. Shortrange strategies include 
improvements that ODOT could implement on their roadways since these changes would take place 
in areas that are within their jurisdiction. Mediumrange strategies encourage ODOT to prepare for 
the future redevelopment of private parcels and to anticipate the necessary measures needed to 
improve access. Longrange strategies are comprehensive plans that involve cooperation between 
both ODOT and private property owners. Both entities must work alongside one another in order to 
provide the safest and most efficient accesses along OR 126W. The following strategies provide a 
stepbystep process for ODOT to improve overall access on the OR 126W corridor, but as 
opportunities arise and present themselves in the form of roadway improvements or 
redevelopment projects, ODOT should take advantage of them to include multiple aspects of the 
access management plan. 

Short-Range Strategies (ODOT Right of Way)
With the anticipated increases in vehicular traffic on OR 126W, turn lanes could be implemented to 
improve the efficiency and safety of the corridor and provide an area in which to accommodate the 
demand for turning vehicles. Through restriping, turn lanes could be installed immediately in areas 
where striped medians do not currently exist (e.g., between Huston Road and Ellmaker Road in the 
near term). Volumes and speeds are high on OR 126W, so even when the vehicular volumes do not 
require the installation of a turn lane, consideration should still be given because of the increased 
potential for accident in the through lanes. A turn lane is beneficial on OR 126W since it is a two
lane roadway and would therefore provide a storage area for turning vehicles and would remove 
conflicting vehicles from through traffic flow. At the same time, turning restrictions could also be 
implemented by installing nontraversable medians to avoid turning movement conflicts from the 
various accesses. This type of median could be installed by striping a solid double yellow line with 
yellow crosshatching between the lines. In the future, the striped median could be converted into a 
physical median or barrier. 


 




Access Management Plan                                                                         Page 10 of 11 
October 2011 
OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                                                                          



 
Medium-Range Strategies (Individual Private Parcels)
For properties that are currently dependent on direct highway access, consideration should be 
made for the sharing or consolidation of access points if they are to be redeveloped in the future. 
This would require the establishment of easements between property owners to allow for access 
and for efficient, interparcel circulation. These new properties should look for ways to divert traffic 
from OR 126W onto lower volume, lower speed side streets to improve the overall safety of the 
roadway network. Modifications to the network may also require some of the shortrange 
strategies previously discussed, such as restriping of roadways to include turn lanes or the 
installation of nontraversable medians. Ultimately, the redevelopment of properties should take 
into account the longrange goal of the addition of a frontage or backage road. Therefore, 
easements and right of ways for the construction of these roads should be considered as land is 
redeveloped.  

Long-Range Strategies (Comprehensive Approach)
The westernmost section of the study corridor between Huston and Ellmaker Road has multiple, 
closely spaced driveways, which primarily serve local businesses. A backage road parallel to OR 
126W may be a desirable solution for improving traffic flow and safety along this section of OR 
126W. For example, Wildwood Road is an existing Lane County roadway 600 feet to the north. By 
connecting the properties along OR 126W to Wildwood Road, local connections would be provided 
to the properties. This additional access to these properties would reduce the need for local traffic 
to use OR 126W and allow more flexibility in implementing access management techniques along 
OR 126W. 

Due to potential property impacts of a backage road between Huston Road and Ellmaker Road, this 
strategy would be best pursued as a longrange solution with incremental progress made in the 
mediumrange (see prior discussion) as redevelopment occurs or other opportunities arise.  A new 
backage roadway might also require the installation of turn lanes on Huston Road or Ellmaker Road 
to serve as a storage area for vehicles that are accessing the backage. The access to the backage 
road should also be spaced sufficiently far from OR 126 to avoid obstructions by vehicle queues. 
The additional turning movements that result for diversion to the backage road may trigger the 
need for traffic signals at the OR 126W/Huston Road and OR 126W/Ellmaker Road intersections. 

 




 




Access Management Plan                                                                     Page 11 of 11 
October 2011 
                                                                                                                                                West Corridor Limit
                                                                                                                                                       HUSTON                                         JE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          S


                                                                               West Corridor Limit


                                                                                                                                                                                        WILDWOOD




                                                                     INSET A
                                                                                                            HUSTON




                                                                                                                                                         Below
                                                                                                                                                                                           ELLMAKER




                                                                                                                                                       INSET A
                                                                                                                                                            See
                                                                                                                                                                                        510
                                                                                                      660




                                                                                                                                                                                    413
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                      480
                                                                                                                                                                           SHA
                                                                                                                                                                               DY




                                                                                                      90                                                 620
                                                                                                      70
                                                                                                                                                                                 RES
                                                                                                                                                                                   T




                                                                                                  280
                                                                                                                                                CEN                                171
                                                                                                                                                   TRA                                0
                                                                                                                                                      L
                                                                                                 150




                                                                                                              WILDWOOD
                                                                                                 110

                                                                                                 190
                                                                                                                                                                       HWY 126




                                                                                                 250


                                                                                                 110




                                                            LEGEND
                                                                                                210


                                                                                                                                                                                 947
                                                                                                280                                                                                 0

                                                                                                90




               - Driveway Access Location
               - Roadway Access Location
                                                                                                140
                                                                                                            ELLMAKER




           000 - Distance (feet) Between Access Locations
                                                                                                                                                                           168
NO SCALE                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                   FISHER
                                                                                                                                                    Below
                                                                                                                                                  INSET B
                                                                                                                                                       See




                                                                                                                         CANTRELL




                                                                     INSET B




                                                                                                                                                                                 150
                                                                                                                                                                                    0


                                                                                                160
                                                                                                                                                         KEN NIELSEN




                                                                                                130
                                                                                                                                                                                   252
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                 230


                                                                                                 150
                                                                                                                                                                                          670
                                                                                                  100
                                                                                                   70
                                                                                                                                                                                             122
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                  KEN NIELSEN




                                                                                                                                                               960
                                                                                                      400
                                                                                                                                                          170
                                                                                                            FISHER          OAK HILL
                                                                                                                                                                                  GOBLE




                                                                                                                                                                                  620

                                                                                                                                                                             850
                                                                                                                                       CR
                                                                                                                                         O
                                                                                                                                            W     60
                                                                                                                                                                       128
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                100
                                                                                                                                                                                 GREEN HILL
                                                                                                                                    East Corridor Limit
                                                            Figure
                                                            2
                              ACCESS LOCATIONS
                            APPENDIX F. HIGHWAY 126 FERN RIDGE CORRIDOR PLAN




Appendix F. Technical Memorandum #10, Highway 126 Fern Ridge
Corridor Plan ­ Preliminary Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 1
Screening)
                         TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM #10
    TO:                Project Management Team

    FROM:              Scott Mansur, P.E., P.T.O.E., DKS Associates
                       Peter Coffey, P.E., DKS Associates
                       Kevin Chewuk, DKS Associates

    DATE:              January 16, 2012

    SUBJECT:           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Preliminary Evaluation
                       of Alternatives (Tier 1 Screening)                                   P09042-019-008


    The purpose of this memorandum is to evaluate and compare proposed alternatives for the OR
    126W Fern Ridge Corridor. A range of criteria was developed from the purpose, needs, goals and
    objectives (PNGO) for the project. The PNGO was created by the project management team
    (comprised of ODOT, City of Veneta, Lane County and Lane Transit District) and further revised
    based on feedback from the public. The criteria were used to compare and evaluate the multiple
    alternatives to help distinguish a set of preferred alternatives to be taken through the more rigorous
    Tier 2 screening process. This memorandum outlines the methodology and criteria utilized to
    compare the alternatives, in addition to summarizing the outcome of the evaluation by alternative
    and recommending those to advance to the Tier 2 screening process. For more detailed information
    regarding the preliminary evaluation of alternatives, see the Draft OR 126W Environmental
    Background and Screening Evaluation Report.
    Alternatives Overview
    Eight alternatives were evaluated within the OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor along three potential
    routes. These alternatives follow one of three routes as shown in Figure 1 and summarized below.

           OR 126W Route: Five alternatives were evaluated along the OR 126W route from Huston
          Road to Green Hill Road. Alternatives considered included doing nothing, transportation system
          management improvements, spot improvements, and roadway widening to three and four lanes.
           Southern Route: Two alternatives were considered along the Perkins Road, Central Road,
          Cantrell Road and Crow Road route between Huston Road and Green Hill Road. Alternatives
          considered included widening various segments of this route to three lanes and widening
          portions of the shoulder as appropriate, or adding a multi-use trail for pedestrian and bicycle
          travel.
           Northern Route: One alternative was evaluated along the Territorial Highway, Clear Lake
          Road and Green Hill Road route around Fern Ridge Lake. The alternative would widen various
          segments of this route to three lanes and widen portions of the shoulder as appropriate.
_____________________________
117 Commercial Street NE, Suite 310
Salem, Oregon 97301
(503) 391-8773 | (503) 391-8701 fax
www.dksassociates.com
                                                      OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Preliminary
                                                          Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 1 Screening)
                                                                                      January 16, 2012
                                                                                            Page 2 of 9

Table 1 summarizes the alternatives considered and their major elements. Overall, the alternatives
vary based on the number of lanes on the roadway, shoulder width, modes accommodated and
route.

                                                                     OR 126W Route
                                                                     Southern Route
                                                                     Northern Route




                      Figure 1: Routes Considered for Alternative Concepts

Widening OR 126W under the three or four lane alternative would require modification to the
existing dike across Fern Ridge Lake. Two potential causeway options were evaluated: widening the
existing dike to support the expanded roadway or replacing the dike with support piers allowing
improved water flow under the roadway. Since subtle differences would be expected between the
two causeway options for most of the evaluation criteria, they were evaluated as separate design
options. Therefore, the three and four lane alternatives for OR 126W were each evaluated with a
causeway on a dike and a causeway on piers.




                               Source: Aurecon                                   Source: PediaView

      Example of causeway built on a dike                Example of causeway built on piers
                                                                                                        OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Preliminary
                                                                                                            Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 1 Screening)
                                                                                                                                        January 16, 2012
                                                                                                                                              Page 3 of 9

        OR 126W-                    OR 126W- Transportation System                      OR 126W-                            OR 126W- 3 Lane Alternative
    No Build Alternative               Management Alternative               Spot Improvements Alternative                     (Built on Dike or Piers)

No improvements are                No roadway widening (OR 126W             OR 126W would be modified where               OR 126W would be widened to
constructed. OR 126W would         would maintain the existing cross-       practical to include additional turn lanes,   include one travel lane in each
maintain one travel lane in each   section). Lower cost improvements        intersection improvements and shoulder        direction and a center lane for either
direction, with left turn lanes    would be implemented such as             widening. The shoulders would continue        turning or passing as appropriate.
where they currently exist. The    improved signing and roadway             to vary in size and the roadway would         The shoulders would be widened to
shoulders would continue to        striping, alternate mobility standards   transition between two and three lanes.       eight feet.
vary in size.                      or transit and access management
                                   enhancements.




OR 126W- 4 Lane Alternative                Southern Route-                            Southern Route-
  (Built on Dike or Piers)          Perkins and Cantrell Alternative           Multi-use Path Only Alternative               Northern Route Alternative

OR 126W would be widened to        Perkins and Cantrell Roads would be      A multi-use path for pedestrian and           Territorial Highway, and Clear Lake
include two travel lanes in each   modified where needed to include         bicycle travel would be constructed           and Green Hill Roads would be
direction. The shoulders would     additional turn lanes and widened        between Huston Road and Green Hill            modified where needed to include
be widened to eight feet.          shoulders. The roadways would            Road generally near the Perkins and           additional turn lanes and widened
                                   transition between two and three         Cantrell Road alignments. No additional       shoulders. The roadways would
                                   lanes.                                   roadway improvements would be                 transition between two and three
                                                                            constructed (OR 126W would maintain           lanes.
                                                                            the existing cross-section).




                                            Table 1: Alternatives Considered and Major Elements
                                                       OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Preliminary
                                                           Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 1 Screening)
                                                                                       January 16, 2012
                                                                                             Page 4 of 9

Evaluation Criteria
A variety of criteria were used to evaluate the alternatives proposed for the OR 126W Fern Ridge
Corridor. The individual evaluation measures for each criteria were derived from the PNGO for the
project. They were applied to each alternative to evaluate and compare them to one another. More
information on the evaluation criteria can be found in the Draft OR 126W Environmental
Background and Screening Evaluation Report1.
The criteria used for evaluation focus on transportation, environmental, social and economic, and
community planning goals. Each goal has multiple criteria and associated measures within it to
allow for a multi-dimensional evaluation of each alternative. The following outlines the overarching
goals developed with project management team and public input, and summarize the measures
utilized for evaluation.
Transportation Goal: Provide a multi-modal transportation system from Veneta to Eugene
to meet existing and future safety and mobility needs for all transportation system users. The
11 measures utilized in this goal focus on minimizing conflict points, increasing motor vehicle,
freight and emergency vehicle mobility, minimizing impacts to railroad service, and providing safe
and accessible pedestrian, bicycle, transit and motor vehicle facilities.
Alternatives providing for additional roadway capacity would generally be expected to more
completely achieve these measures. The main difference to be expected with the scoring of the
alternatives would be related to how effectively they address the safety and flow of the various travel
modes along the corridor.
Environmental Goal: Minimize the impacts to local environmental and community
resources while incorporating opportunities to enhance those resources. Seven measures were
evaluated within this goal. These measures focus on the ability to minimize adverse impacts to
natural, historical, cultural and visual resources, improving access to recreational areas, and
supporting regional modal alternatives to the motor vehicle.
Alternatives that would not involve much roadway widening would generally be expected to have
the lowest impact on resources, but would fare the worst in regards to increasing accessibility to
recreational areas and improving pedestrian and bicycle facilities. On the other hand, alternatives
that involve roadway widening would generally be expected to have the opposite impact, with the
additional roadway capacity providing for enhanced access to recreational areas and widened
shoulders providing for improved pedestrian and bicycle facilities. However, the larger roadway
would have a greater impact on resources.
Social and Economic Goal: Enhance the economic viability of the region including
industrial, commercial, recreational, and tourist activities; protect the livability and integrity
of the residential areas; provide a financially viable project. Nine measures were evaluated
within this goal. The measures are focused on improving access to residential, commercial and
recreational areas, providing accessible transportation facilities, limiting project costs and property
related impacts, supporting freight and rail travel, and maintaining consistency with local economic
                                                                   OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Preliminary
                                                                       Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 1 Screening)
                                                                                                   January 16, 2012
                                                                                                         Page 5 of 9

development plans.
Alternatives that involve roadway widening would be expected to improve multi-modal accessibility
and would be most consistent with local economic development plans. However, they would have
the most property related impacts and higher costs. Alternatives that would not involve much
roadway widening would generally be expected to have the least property related impacts and lower
costs, however, multi-modal accessibility would be the least improved among the alternatives.
Community Planning Goal: Be consistent with the adopted long term goals and policies of
the community and the region. The ten measures utilized in this goal focus on consistency with
state and local plans.
Alternatives providing for additional roadway capacity would generally be expected to more
completely achieve these measures. The additional roadway capacity and widened shoulders would
be most consistent with state and local plans.

Multi-Use Path Design "Option"
Within the Draft OR 126W Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report, a
separated multi-use path design option was evaluated with the spot improvements alternative. Based
on the ratings among these two alternatives, it was clear that providing a separated multi-use path
for pedestrian and bicycle travel would be beneficial in comparison to the same alternative without
that option. It was also evident based on public input that a separated multi-use path would be
preferred to on-street bicycle facilities. For the purposes of this analysis a separated multi-use path
design option was viewed as an option that could be added to any alternative. This allows for the
potential to more comfortably and safely accommodate pedestrian and bicycle modes where there
would be minimal impacts.
Evaluation Findings
Utilizing the outlined methodology and criteria, an evaluation was conducted for each of the eight
alternatives. Three of the eight alternatives had additional design options that would affect the
results of the screening evaluation and were therefore added. These three design options were
related to the causeway on piers and causeway on a dike that was previously discussed as well as the
separated multi-use path that would be considered as part of the spot improvements. The three
additional alternatives with design options include:
         OR 126W Spot Improvements- Design Option: with separated Multi-use Path
         OR 126 Four Lane- Design Option with Causeway on Piers
         OR 126 Four Lane- Design Option with Causeway on Dike
Each alternative was evaluated based on the extent to which it achieved the measures of the criteria
and scored on a scale from one (Poor) to three (Good). The evaluation criteria and measures are
intended to help distinguish among the alternatives and determine which alternative best meets the

1
    Draft OR 126W Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report, December 2011
                                                       OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Preliminary
                                                           Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 1 Screening)
                                                                                       January 16, 2012
                                                                                             Page 6 of 9

criteria. A lower score generally represents less of an opportunity to meet the criteria and a higher
score represents a greater likelihood of meeting the criteria. More information on the evaluation
findings can be found in the Draft OR 126W Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation
Report.
Two scoring methods were applied to the evaluation criteria. The first method treats each evaluation
criterion equally and results in a raw score for each alternative. As previously discussed, each of the
four goals has a different number of criteria so this method could result in one of the goals having a
greater number of criteria, which may skew the ranking of the alternatives. Therefore, a second
method was applied that equalizes each of the project goals. As shown in Tables 2a and 2b, there
was no change in the ranking of alternatives between the two different scoring methods.
Significant differences occurred within the "Transportation" scoring between the alternatives. Three
lane and four lane roadways were favorable compared to smaller cross-sections, yet that came at the
expense of a greater impact to properties and higher resource costs. A smaller cross-section would
have fewer resource impacts. However, this was countered by minimal beneficial impact to multi-
modal safety, mobility and accessibility through the corridor. It was clear from an evaluation
standpoint that providing a separated multi-use path for pedestrian and bicycle travel would be
beneficial in comparison to the same alternative without that option. But that would come at the
detriment of potential additional property and environmental impacts as well as cost to implement.
Overall, the alternatives that were determined to have the greatest likelihood to meet the PNGO for
the project included the four lane, three lane and spot improvements with multi-use path alternatives
along the OR 126W route. These alternatives generally scored higher than the others within the
"Transportation" and "Community Planning" goal and criteria. The No-Build alternative ranked
lowest of the alternatives. Overall the primary differences in scoring of the alternatives were related
to the impacts on multi-modal safety, mobility and accessibility through the corridor and overall
consistency with state and local plans.

Fatal Flaw
Two of the alternatives (Multi-Use Path Only and Northern Route via Clear Lake Road) were
determined to have fatal flaws under the "Transportation" goal and criteria. The Multi-Use Path
Only Alternative would not address motor vehicle operational and safety factors on OR 126W.
Traffic conditions on OR 126W would remain the same which would not meet the
"Transportation" goal and criteria. Due to this fundamental flaw, the Multi-Use Path Alternative
would not be recommended for further evaluation.
In addition, the Northern Route Alternative would require too much out-of-direction travel to serve
as a viable parallel facility to OR 126W. This route would considerably increase the travel distance
between Veneta and Eugene. Consequently, operational conditions on OR 126W would not
significantly change which would not satisfy the intent of the "Transportation" goal and criteria.
For this reason, the Northern Route Alternative would not be recommended for further evaluation.
                                                                                                                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Preliminary
                                                                                                                                                Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 1 Screening)
                                                                                                                                                                             January 16, 201
                                                                                                                                                                                  Page 7 of 9

Table 2a: Alternative Evaluation Rankings by Goal (Raw Score)




                                                                                                                                                                3 lanes w/ Causeway on Piers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4 lanes w/ Causeway on Piers
                                                                                                                            3 lanes w/ Causeway on Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                      4 lanes w/ Causeway on Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Perkins and Cantrell Roads
                                                                                                   Spot Improvements with
                                                       Transportation System




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Multi-Use Path Only
                                                                               Spot Improvements




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (Clear Lake Road)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Southern Route-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Southern Route-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Northern Route
                                                                                                   Design Option:

                                                                                                   Multi-Use Path



                                                                                                                                                                Design Option:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Design Option:
                                                       Management
                                            OR 126W-

                                                       OR 126W-


                                                                               OR 126W-
                                            No Build




                                                                                                                            OR 126W-




                                                                                                                                                                                                      OR 126W-
                            Goals
              Transportation                  15              16                   17                      21                      26                                   27                                   29                                   30                                   21                              FF                       FF
              Environmental                   18              18                   19                      15                      12                                   15                                   11                                   15                                   13                                  -                        -
     Social and Economic                      11              11                   13                      18                      18                                   18                                   20                                   20                                   15                                  -                        -
     Community Planning                       14              14                   15                      21                      18                                   19                                   20                                   21                                   16                                  -                        -
            Total Raw Score                   58              59                   64                      75                      74                                   79                                   80                                   86                                   65                              FF                       FF
  Ranking of Alternative                       6                5                     -                      3                         -                                   2                                     -                                   1                                    4                            FF                       FF

Table 2b: Alternative Evaluation Rankings by Goal (Equalized by Project Goals)                                                                                         3 lanes w/ Causeway on Piers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4 lanes w/ Causeway on Piers
                                                                                                                                  3 lanes w/ Causeway on Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                            4 lanes w/ Causeway on Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Perkins and Cantrell Roads
                                                                                                       Spot Improvements with
                                                          Transportation System




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Multi-Use Path Only
                                                                                   Spot Improvements




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (Clear Lake Road)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Southern Route-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Southern Route-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Northern Route
                                                                                                       Design Option:

                                                                                                       Multi-Use Path



                                                                                                                                                                       Design Option:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Design Option:
                                                          Management
                                              OR 126W-

                                                          OR 126W-


                                                                                   OR 126W-
                                              No Build




                                                                                                                                  OR 126W-




                                                                                                                                                                                                            OR 126W-




                              Goals
                Transportation                 13.6             14.5                 15.5                    19.1                     23.6                                 24.5                                 26.4                                 27.3                                 19.1                              FF                       FF
                Environmental                  25.7             25.7                 27.1                    21.4                     17.1                                 21.4                                 15.7                                 21.4                                 18.6                                  -                       -
       Social and Economic                     12.2             12.2                 14.4                      20                         20                                   20                               22.2                                 22.2                                 16.7                                  -                       -
       Community Planning                       14                14                    15                     21                         18                                   19                                   20                                   21                                   16                                -                       -
      Total Equalized Score                    65.5             66.4                    72                   81.5                     78.7                                 84.9                                 84.3                                 91.9                                 70.4                              FF                       FF
     Ranking of Alternative                        6                5                     -                      3                            -                                   2                                     -                                    1                                  4                           FF                       FF
  Source: Draft OR 126W Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report, Table 7.1, December 2011


  OR 126W Route                     Southern Route                                 Northern Route

 1                  2                 3
Poor ............ Average ...........Best              FF = Fatal Flaw
                                                                  OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Preliminary
                                                                      Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 1 Screening)
                                                                                                  January 16, 2012
                                                                                                        Page 8 of 9

Next Steps
The three improvement alternatives with the greatest likelihood of meeting the project's PNGO will
be forwarded to the next study phase, which will include a more rigorous screening evaluation (Tier
2 Screening). In addition, the No-Build alternative is required to be advanced to the Tier 2 Screening
for the purpose of comparison with the other alternatives even though it ranked the lowest in
meeting the project's PNGO.2
Since it was clear that providing a separated multi-use path for pedestrian and bicycle travel would
be beneficial in comparison to the same alternative without that option (and also evident based on
public input that a separated multi-use path would be preferred to on-street facilities), the separated
multi-use path in the vicinity of the OR 126 alignment is recommended to be evaluated with the
alternatives advancing to the Tier 2 screening process. A separated multi-use path that utilizes Ken
Nielsen Road and Cantrell Road will be considered as a design option. In addition, the causeway on
piers (which was previously a design option) improved the likelihood of meeting the PNGO of the
project for the OR 126W three and four lane alternatives, and is recommended to be evaluated as
part of the main alternative in the Tier 2 screening process. The causeway on dike will also be
evaluated as a design option.
The southern route alternative along Perkins and Cantrell Roads would have a moderate effect on
mobility and safety through the OR 126W corridor, however, this alternative would not effectively
supplement a long-term solution if needed along the OR 126W corridor. Therefore, this alternative
is not recommended to advance to Tier 2 Screening process.
Based on the criteria evaluation and rankings documented in the prior section of this memorandum,
the following alternatives were recommended for advancement:
         OR 126W 4 lane Alternative with Causeway on Piers and Adjacent Multi-Use Path
         Design Options to consider:
            o Causeway on Dike
            o Separated Multi-Use Path (Southern Alignment)

         OR 126W 3 lane Alternative with Causeway on Piers and Adjacent Multi-Use Path
         Design Options to consider:
            o Causeway on Dike
            o Separated Multi-Use Path (Southern Alignment)

         OR 126W Spot Improvements with the Separated Multi-Use Path Design Option

         No-Build Alternative



2
 The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires the No Build Alternative to be advanced and analyzed throughout the
project development process.
                                                      OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Preliminary
                                                          Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 1 Screening)
                                                                                      January 16, 2012
                                                                                            Page 9 of 9

While "OR 126W Spot Improvements" are listed above as a stand-alone alternative, a mixture of the
spot improvements consistent with the final improvement recommendation may also be considered
as short term modifications to OR 126W (i.e., as an earlier phase), while the multi-use path and the
three lane or four lane widening could be implemented over time as funding allows. In addition, it is
recommended that TSM elements be considered to supplement capital improvements because they
can help ensure more efficient use of transportation investments in the long term. The likelihood
that any one of these individual strategies or a combination thereof are able to address corridor
transportation issues will be analyzed and further detailed during the Tier 2 screening process.
                          APPENDIX G. HIGHWAY 126 FERN RIDGE CORRIDOR PLAN




Appendix G. Technical Memorandum #11, Highway 126 Fern Ridge
Corridor Plan ­ Refined Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 2
Screening)
                    TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM #11
TO:                Project Management Team

FROM:              Scott Mansur, P.E., P.T.O.E., DKS Associates
                   Peter Coffey, P.E., DKS Associates

DATE:              April 27, 2012

SUBJECT:           OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Refined Evaluation of
                   Alternatives (Tier 2 Screening)                                                       P09042-019-008

The purpose of this memorandum is to further refine the proposed alternatives for the OR 126W
Fern Ridge Corridor. A Tier 2 screening was applied to evaluate the alternatives and provide
recommendations for alternatives to move forward in the corridor selection process. This
memorandum provides an updated description of the remaining alternatives, outlines the Tier 2
screening methodology and criteria, in addition to summarizing the findings and recommendations
for the next steps in the evaluation process.

Background
A Tier 1 screening was previously conducted on eight corridor alternatives as part of the process to
identify a set of final alternatives. Based on the Tier 1 screening evaluation, three alternatives were
identified to be carried forward to the Tier 2 screening evaluation. These alternatives were further
refined with details beyond the concepts considered in Tier 1. All of the alternatives carried forward
from the Tier 1 screening were for the OR 126W route from Huston Road to Green Hill Road
(shown in Figure 1). The northern route and southern route alternatives were eliminated after the
Tier 1 screening evaluation.

Final Alternatives Overview
The No-Build alternative and three route improvement alternatives were evaluated within the OR
126W Fern Ridge Corridor under the Tier 2 screening process. Although the Tier 1 screening found
that the No-Build alternative ranked the lowest in meeting the project's objectives, it is required to
be advanced to the Tier 2 Screening for the purpose of comparison with the other alternatives.1 The
alternatives considered in the Tier 2 screening are listed below.

         No-Build Alternative
         OR 126W Spot Improvements
         OR 126W 3 Lane Alternative
         OR 126W 4 Lane Alternative
1
 The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires the No-Build Alternative to be advanced and analyzed throughout the
project development process.
                                                                               OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
                                                              Refined Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 2 Screening)
                                                                                                     April 27, 2012
                                                                                                        Page 2 of 9



                                                                             OR 126W Route
                                                                          Separate Multi-use Path




                       Figure 1: Final Alternative and Southern Path Design Option


Table 1 provides a description and sketch of the alternatives considered and their major elements. All of
the alternatives follow the OR 126W alignment. The alternatives vary based on the number of lanes on
the roadway, shoulder width, and intersection improvements. For consistency in the screening of
alternatives, the build alternatives assume a separate multi-use path and the 3 Lane and 4 Lane
alternatives assumed the existing dike would be widened2. There are design options for the widened
roadway to be constructed on piers and location of the multi-use path that are presented later in this
memorandum.




2
 The Tier 1 screening analysis considered two options for widening OR 126W in the areas where it is directly adjacent to Fern
Ridge Lake. One option was to widen the dike, and the other option was to construct the entire widened roadway on piers.
                                                                               OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
                                                              Refined Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 2 Screening)
                                                                                                     April 27, 2012
                                                                                                        Page 3 of 9

                                     Table 1: Summary of Tier 2 Alternatives
                          OR 126W                                                       OR 126W
                          No Build                                                 Spot Improvements
    No improvements are constructed. OR 126W                     OR 126W would be modified where practical or
    would maintain one travel lane in each direction,            necessary to address a safety or operational issue to
    with left turn lanes where they currently exist. The         include additional turn lanes, intersection
    shoulders would continue to vary in size.                    improvements and shoulder widening. The
                                                                 shoulders would vary in size and the roadway would
                                                                 transition between two and three lanes.




         OR 126W 3 Lane with Multi Use Path                            OR 126W 4 Lane with Multi Use Path

    OR 126W would be widened to include one travel               OR 126W would be widened to include two travel
    lane in each direction and a center lane for either          lanes in each direction. Dedicated left turn and
    turning or passing as appropriate. The shoulders             right turn lanes would be provided at intersections
    would be widened to eight feet. The causeway                 and driveways where warranted. The shoulders
    would be on the existing dike.                               would be widened to eight feet. The causeway
                                                                 would be on the existing dike.




Evaluation Criteria
The Tier 1 screening criteria were carried forward and applied in the Tier 2 evaluation. The Tier 1
screening criteria was developed from the purpose, needs, goals and objectives for the project. The
criteria focused on transportation, environmental, social and economic, and community planning
goals. The details of the Tier 1 criteria are documented in the Preliminary Evaluation memorandum3
and the Draft OR 126W Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report4. The Tier 1
and Tier 2 screening criteria descriptions are also provided in the appendix to this memorandum. In
the Tier 1 screening process the concept alternatives were rated on a scale of 1 to 3 while in the Tier

3
  OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Preliminary Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 1 Screening), DKS Associates, January 16,
2012.
4
  Draft OR 126W Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report, December 2011.
                                                                                OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
                                                               Refined Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 2 Screening)
                                                                                                      April 27, 2012
                                                                                                         Page 4 of 9

2 process the more refined alternatives provided more differentiation and were rated on a scale of 1
to 5. The Tier 2 process also considered additional factors such as construction cost,
constructability and permitting.

Mobility Analysis
A traffic operations analysis of future conditions was conducted for each alternative. The findings of
the analysis were used in the Tier 2 screening for the Transportation criteria. The operations analysis
was conducted for future year 2035 conditions at study intersections. The future 2035 volume
forecasts and methodology are provided in the Future Travel Forecast and Needs Analysis
memorandum5.
Based on the analysis, the 4 Lane alternative performed the best with all study intersections meeting
Oregon Highway Plan (OHP) mobility targets for the future 2035 scenario. The No Build, 3 Lane
and Spot Improvement alternatives each had several study intersections that would not meet OHP
mobility targets. The details of the operations analysis is provided in the appendix to this
memorandum.

Evaluation Findings
In the Tier 2 screening evaluation, each alternative was evaluated and rated based on how well it
achieved the measures set for each of the criteria; scoring was on a scale from one (poor
achievement) to five (best achievement). The evaluation was intended to help distinguish differences
between the alternatives and aid decision makers in determining which alternative best met the
various project criteria. A lower score generally represents less of an opportunity to meet the criteria
and a higher score represents a greater likelihood of meeting the criteria.
As in the Tier 1 screening, two scoring methods were applied to the evaluation criteria. The first
method treats each evaluation criterion equally and results in a raw score for each alternative.
Because each of the four goals is comprised of a different number of criteria this method could
result in the goals having a greater number of criteria skewing the ranking of the alternatives.
Therefore, a second method was applied that equalized each of the project goals. The Tier 2
screening evaluation scoring is summarized in Tables 2a and 2b.




5
    OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ­ Future Travel Forecast and Needs Analysis, DKS Associates, December 7, 2011.
                                                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
                                                           Refined Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 2 Screening)
                                                                                                  April 27, 2012
                                                                                                     Page 5 of 9

Table 2a: Tier 2 Screening Evaluation by Goal (Raw Score)

                                           OR 126W        OR 126W Spot        OR 126W 3         OR 126W 4
           Goals
                                           No Build       Improvements         Lanes             Lanes


                 Transportation               19                 39               42                48

                 Environmental                30                 28               24                19

           Social and Economic                13                 21               33                37

           Community Planning                 17                 39               40                41

              Total Raw Score                 79                 127              139               145

        Ranking of Alternative                4                   3                2                 1
 Build alternatives assume causeway on dike and separated multi-use path.
 Tier 2 scoring range:      1       2         3        4         5
                         Poor       Fair     Average   Good     Best


Table 2b: Tier 2 Screening Evaluation by Goal (Equalized Score)

                                           OR 126W        OR 126W Spot        OR 126W 3         OR 126W 4
           Goals
                                           No Build       Improvements         Lanes             Lanes


                 Transportation               17                 35               38                44

                 Environmental                43                 40               34                27

           Social and Economic                14                 23               37                41

           Community Planning                 15                 35               36                37

        Total Equalized Score                 90                 134              145               149

        Ranking of Alternative                4                   3                2                 1
 Build alternatives assume causeway on dike and separated multi-use path.
 Tier 2 scoring range:      1       2         3        4         5
                         Poor       Fair     Average   Good     Best


There was no change in the ranking of alternatives between the two different scoring methods.
Overall, the alternative that was determined to have the greatest likelihood of meeting the project
goals was the 4 Lane alternative. The 3 Lane alternative ranked a close second based on the scoring.
The spot improvement alternative and the No Build alternative were ranked a distance third and
fourth, respectively.

Design Options
For consistency in the Tier 2 screening, the build alternatives assume the multi-use path would be
separate from the corridor and the 3 Lane and 4 Lane alternatives assumed the existing dike would
                                                                  OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
                                                 Refined Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 2 Screening)
                                                                                        April 27, 2012
                                                                                           Page 6 of 9

be widened. There are design options for the multi-use path and the causeway that could be applied
to the build alternatives to modify the corridor project. The design options are described below.

Causeway Design Option
Widening OR 126W under the 3 or 4 Lane alternative would require modification to the existing
dike across Fern Ridge Lake. Two potential causeway options are widening the existing dike to
support the expanded roadway or replacing the dike with support piers allowing improved hydraulic
flow under the roadway. Overall, the causeway design options were found to have negligible
differences in regards to meeting project objectives in the Tier 2 screening process. The main
difference between the causeway design options would be the environmental impact, which would
be expected to be slightly higher with the dike, since the support pier option would allow improved
water flow under the roadway. The pier option would also contribute to greater traffic impacts
during construction than the dike as the existing OR 126 segment would have to be removed and
replaced with pier structure requiring a detour traffic route that would add substantial out of
direction travel. The cost for support pier design option is expected to be significantly higher than
the widened dike option as discussed later in this memorandum.

Multi-Use Path Design Option
Results of the previously conducted Tier 1 screening evaluation indicated that providing a multi-use
path for pedestrian and bicycle travel was a priority. Two potential multi-use path location options
were considered: (1) locating the facility adjacent to OR 126W and (2) providing a separated multi-
use path located to the south along Perkins Road, Cantrell Road and Ken Nielsen Road with a
connection to the Fern Ridge Path at Greenhill Road (shown in Figure 1).
The multi-use path options were screened with the Tier 2 criteria to assess how well they would each
meet the project goals. Overall, the multi-use path design options were found to have negligible
differences in regards to meeting project objectives. The separated multi-use path located south of
OR 126W met the project objectives best for the transportation and environmental goals, while the
multi-use path adjacent to OR 126 best met the social and economic and community planning goals.
The separate multi-use path option would be expected to improve pedestrian and bicycle safety and
minimize several potential environmental impacts when compared to the adjacent path design
option. However, the separate path would require its own construction project with separate
funding which may be a challenge and delay the improvements. The adjacent multi-use path would
be expected to enhance pedestrian and bicycle access to residential, commercial and natural areas
and promote transit service more so than the separated path design option. While only subtle
differences would be expected between the two multi-use path design options in regards to meeting
the project objectives, it is recommended that the separated path design option along Perkins Road,
Cantrell Road and Ken Nielsen Road be advanced as the recommended option since it is the
preferred alignment from the public's perspective. However, due to the subtle differences between
the two options, we recommend that both options be moved forward for further evaluation. It
should be noted that the adjacent multi-use path is the preferred option by Lane County
                                                                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
                                                            Refined Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 2 Screening)
                                                                                                   April 27, 2012
                                                                                                      Page 7 of 9

Engineering. However, they are in agreement that both alternatives should move forward as was
previously recommended.

Table 3: Multi-Use Path Design Options Tier 2 Screening Evaluation by Goal
                                       Adjacent Design Option:          Separated Design Option:
             Goals                     OR 126W Multi-Use Path          Perkins-Cantrell-Ken Nielsen
                                                                                  Road
                    Transportation                 33                              35
                    Environmental                  18                              22
             Social and Economic                   33                              30
             Community Planning                    38                              36
                Total Raw Score                   122                              123
Notes: Scores are equalized by Project Goals

Construction Costs, Constructability and Permitting
Planning level cost estimates were prepared for each alternative to help assess their potential to
move forward in the corridor selection process. The cost estimates assumed the causeway would be
located on the existing dike and the multi-use path would be separated from and located south of
the highway. The estimates include preliminary costs for construction, permitting, right-of-way
acquisitions as well as future environmental,(EA/EIS) efforts. These cost estimates do not include
cost associated with off-site environmental mitigations that would likely be required. The cost
estimates for each build alternative are summarized in Table 4, and the cost estimate details are
provided in the appendix to this memorandum.
Table 4: Alternative Preliminary Cost Estimates

                                     OR 126W Spot
      Alternative                                               OR 126W 3 Lanes            OR 126W 4 Lanes
                                     Improvements


    Cost Estimate                        $15 M                         $95 M                    $130 M

  Build alternatives assume causeway on dike and separated multi-use path.

As shown in Table 4, the Spot Improvements alternative has a significantly lower cost than the other
alternatives. However, as indicated in Tables 2a and 2b, the Spot Improvements alternative scored
poorly in meeting all of the project goals, which would suggest that the spot improvements
alternative could serve as an interim solution to achieve some of the project goals in the short term.
The significant costs of the 3 Lane and 4 Lane alternatives would likely require a long term schedule
for funding and construction. As previously mentioned, the cost estimates provided in Table 4 for
the 3 Lane and 4 Lane alternatives are based on the assumption that the existing dike would be
                                                                            OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
                                                           Refined Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 2 Screening)
                                                                                                  April 27, 2012
                                                                                                     Page 8 of 9

widened and the three existing bridge structures would be replaced with wider structures. If the
design option to construct OR 126 on piers over environmentally sensitive areas is implemented
instead of the dike widening, it would add approximately $47 million and $65 million to the cost
estimates for the 3 Lane and 4 Lane alternatives shown in Table 4 respectively.
Constructability considerations for the three roadway improvement alternatives reflect the cost
estimates. The spot improvements would be the easiest to construct since they do not include
significant widening throughout the corridor and are contained within several specific locations (see
Spot Improvement Figure attached in the appendix). Both the 3 Lane and 4 Lane alternatives will be
significantly more difficult to construct with the fill that would be required in the adjacent reservoir
and the traffic staging and detours that would be necessary. The widening of the dike along Fern
Ridge Reservoir would extend the roadway northward approximately 25' to 37' beyond the existing
roadway, catching at a 3:1 slope. The widening to the south will not be as wide, but require the same
level of construction effort. This work must occur when the reservoir is drawn down and will likely
require soil consolidation and/or a combination of rock embankment. Additional right-of-way will
likely be necessary for both the 4 Lane and 3 Lane cross-sections..
Environmental considerations also differ between the spot improvements alternative and the 3 Lane
and 4 Lane alternatives. Based on coordination with several of the permitting agencies and
environmental reconnaissance6, there are no issues expected with any of the alternatives as they
relate to the necessary permits that would be required. However, it is likely that the 3 Lane and 4
Lane alternatives would require mitigation measures to address environmental impacts from the
larger roadway footprint. The range of possible mitigation measures would not be known until the
next stage of environmental review; however, because of the extent of protected resources, it is
reasonable to assume that the wider 4 Lane alternative and the structure on piers design option
would require a greater degree and cost for mitigation. The cost estimates previously discussed
include a contingency for on-site water quality mitigation; typical options include storm structures,
ponds, and swales. Off-site mitigation was not considered in any alternative cost estimate.

Next Steps
Based on the Tier 2 criteria evaluation, rankings, and cost estimates, we recommend that the 4 Lane
alternative be considered as the preferred alternative for the OR 126 corridor. We also recommend
that the Spot Improvements alternative be moved forward since this will likely be implemented as
the short-term improvement scenario due to the high construction cost of the 4 Lane alternative.

The key findings of the Tier 2 evaluation are summarized below.
           The 4 lane alternative was determined to have the greatest likelihood to meet the project
           goals and is recommended as the preferred alternative. This alternative could be
           accomplished either by widening the dike or putting the highway on a causeway on piers.



6
    Several coordination meetings have occurred between ODFW, ODOT and USACE.
                                                             OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
                                            Refined Evaluation of Alternatives (Tier 2 Screening)
                                                                                   April 27, 2012
                                                                                      Page 9 of 9

   The Spot Improvements could serve as an interim solution to achieve some of the project
   goals in the short term and therefore should be moved forward along with the 4 Lane
   alternative.
   The 4 Lane alternative would come with a high construction cost ($125 million to widen the
   dike and $190 million for a causeway) and could create significant impacts to the traveling
   public during construction.
   It is recommended that the separated path design option along Perkins Road, Cantrell Road
   and Ken Nielsen Road be advanced as the recommended option. However, since there were
   negligible differences between the two pathway options, the multi use path adjacent to OR
   126 should also be moved forward for further evaluation.
   The selection of the multi-use pathway and causeway design options will likely be
   determined through the NEPA and Project Development process.
Appendix
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Perkins-Cantrell-Ken Neilsen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Adjacent Design Option: OR
                                                                                                                    OR 126 Spot Improvements




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Seperated Design Option:
                                                                                                                    with Separated Multi-Use



                                                                                                                                               OR 126W 3 Lanes with




                                                                                                                                                                      OR 126W 3 Lanes with




                                                                                                                                                                                             OR 126W 4 Lanes with




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OR 126W 4 Lanes with




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           126W Multi-Use Path
                                                                                                 OR 126W No-Build




                                                                                                                                                                      Causeway on Piers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Causeway on Piers
                                                                                                                                               Causeway on Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                             Causeway on Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Road
                                                                                                                    Path
                                   Tier 2 Evaluation Criteria
                                                                                    Transportation
 1   Reduce potential conflict points such as intersections and driveways                         1                           4                       4                      5                      4                      5                        0                              0
 2   Improve pedestrian safety and accessibility                                                  1                           5                       5                      5                      5                      5                        4                              5
 3   Improve bicycle safety and accessibility                                                     1                           5                       5                      5                      5                      5                        4                              5
 4   Improve overall traffic safety                                                               1                           3                       4                      4                      5                      5                        4                              4
 5   Improve east/west vehicle capacity                                                           1                           2                       3                      3                      5                      5                        3                              3
 6   Promote public transit service                                                               1                           3                       3                      3                      3                      3                        5                              3
 7   Improve mobility along corridor, including freight                                           1                           3                       4                      4                      5                      5                        4                              4
 8   Improve emergency vehicle response time                                                      1                           2                       3                      3                      5                      5                        3                              3
 9   Strive to meet ODOT mobility standards                                                       1                           2                       3                      3                      5                      5                        3                              3
10   Minimize impacts to the railroad for freight movements                                       5                           5                       4                      4                      3                      3                        3                              4
11   Minimize impacts to the railroad that limit opportunities for future rail transit            5                          5                       4                      4                     3                      3                         3                               4
                                                                Transportation Raw Score    19                              39                      42                     43                     48                     49                       36                              38
                                                           Transportation Equalized Score   17                              35                      38                     39                     44                     45                       33                              35
                                                                                Environmental




12 Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to Fern Ridge Lake                     5                         5                       3                      4                      2                      3                         2                              3
   Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to other
13 environmentally sensitive natural resource areas                                                 5                         4                       4                      4                      2                      2                         3                              4
   Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to identified historical
14 resources.                                                                                       5                         4                       4                      4                      4                      4                         4                              4
   Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to cultural resources
15                                                                                                  5                         4                       2                      2                      2                      2                         2                              2
16 Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to visual resources                    5                         4                       3                      3                      2                      2                         3                              3
   Provide, maintain, and improve access to existing parkland and recreational facilities,
17 where practicable                                                                            1                             3                       5                      5                      5                      5                         4                              5
18 Be consistent  with ODFW    Fern  Ridge Wildlife Area Plan                                   4                            4                       3                      5                     2                       4                        2                               3
                                                                 Environmental Raw Score       30                           28                      24                     27                     19                     22                       20                              24
                                                            Environmental Equalized Score      43                           40                      34                     39                     27                     31                       29                              34
                                                                               Social and Economic
19 Support  community    livability by improving multi-modal  access to residential areas       1                             2                       3                      3                      3                      3                         5                              3
   Support community livability and economics by improving multi-modal access to
20 commercial areas                                                                             1                             2                       3                      3                      4                      4                         4                              3
   Support community livability and economics by improving multi-modal access to
21 recreational / tourist areas                                                                 1                             3                       5                      5                      5                      5                         4                              5
   Support area economic vitality by improving roadway geometrics for freight
22 movements                                                                                        1                         2                       4                      4                      5                      5                         4                              4
23 Be consistent with City of Veneta Economic Development Strategic Plan                            1                         2                       4                      4                      5                      5                         4                              4
24 Be consistent with Lane County Regional Economic Development Strategies                          1                         2                       4                      4                      5                      5                         4                              4
   Provide transportation facilities which are accessible to all community members and
25 users                                                                                    1                                 3                       4                      4                      4                      4                         5                              4
26 Minimize impacts to properties along the corridor                                        5                                 3                       2                      2                      1                      1                         2                              2
27 Support rail opportunities for Veneta's industrial areas                                 1                                2                       4                      4                     5                       5                        4                               4
                                                          Social and Economic Raw Score    13                               21                      33                     33                     37                     37                       36                              33
                                                    Social and Economic Equalized Score    14                               23                      37                     37                     41                     41                       40                              37
                                                                            Community Planning
28 Improve access opportunities to Fern Ridge Lake along the corridor                       1                                 3                       3                      3                      3                      3                         5                              3
29 Improve access to Perkins Peninsula County Park                                                  1                         3                       3                      3                      3                      3                         5                              3
30 Be consistent with Oregon Highway Plan                                                           1                         3                       4                      4                      5                      5                         4                              4
31 Be consistent with Oregon Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan                                            1                         5                       4                      4                      4                      4                         4                              4
32 Be consistent with Lane County Transportation System Plan                                        1                         3                       4                      4                      5                      5                         4                              4
33 Be consistent with Fern Ridge Path System: Visions and Strategies                                1                         5                       5                      5                      5                      5                         4                              5
34   Be consistent with City of Veneta Comprehensive Plan                                           1                         2                       4                      4                      5                      5                         4                              4
35 Be consistent with Lane County Land Use Code                                                     5                         4                       3                      3                      2                      2                         3                              3
36 Support regional bicycle/pedestrian plans                                                        1                         5                       5                      5                      5                      5                         4                              5
37 Support planned parkland and recreational facilities, where practicable                          1                         3                       3                      3                      3                      3                         3                              3
38 Be consistent with USACE Fern Ridge Operational Management Plan                                3                          3                       2                     2                      1                       1                       2                               2
                                                        Community Planning Raw Score             17                         39                      40                    40                      41                     41                      42                              40
                                                 Community Planning Equalized Score              15                         35                      36                    36                      37                     37                      38                              36
                                                                        Total Raw Score          79                        127                     139                    143                    145                    149                     134                             135
                                                                  Total Equalized Score          90                        134                     145                    151                    149                    154                     139                             142

     Point Scale
     1 - Poor
     2 - Fair
     3 - Average
     4 - Good
     5 - Best
          Future 2035 Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance (No Build Alternative)
                                                                 b          th                              c,d
               a
                                          Mobility Standard               30 Highest Hour (v/c Ratio)
Intersection
                                       Mainline          Side Street         Mainline             Side Street
Signalized
    (22) OR 126W/Green Hill Rd                    0.80 v/c                                1.04
Unsignalized
    (1) OR 126W/Huston Rd              0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.55 (WB-T)           0.83 (NB-LTR)
    (15) OR 126W/Ellmaker Rd           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c      0.67 (WB-T)           0.62 (SB-LR)
    (16) OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr         0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.75 (WB-TR)           0.00 (SB-LR)
    (17) OR 126W/Lake Side Dr          0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.74 (WB-LTR)          0.00 (NB-LTR)
    (18) OR 126W/Central Rd            0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.74 (WB-TR)           1.30 (NB-LTR)
    (19) OR 126W/Fisher Rd             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.78 (WB-TR)           0.98 (SB-LR)
    (20) OR 126W/Richmond St           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.78 (WB-TR)           0.00 (SB-LR)
    (21) OR 126W/Ken Nielsen Rd        0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.78 (WB-LT)           0.01 (NB-LTR)
Driveways
    (2) OR 126W/Driveway 1             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
    (3) OR 126W/Driveway 2             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
    (4) OR 126W/Driveway 3             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)           0.03 (SB-LR)
    (5) OR 126W/Driveway 4             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)           0.00 (SB-LR)
    (6) OR 126W/Driveway 5             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.68 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
    (7) OR 126W/Driveway 6             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
    (8) OR 126W/Driveway 7             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)           0.06 (SB-LR)
    (9) OR 126W/Driveway 8             0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
    (10) OR 126W/Driveway 9            0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
    (11) OR 126W/Driveway 10           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.68 (WB-TR)           0.07 (SB-LR)
    (12) OR 126W/Driveway 11           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.68 (WB-TR)           0.12 (SB-LR)
    (13) OR 126W/Driveway 12           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.67 (WB-TR)           0.14 (SB-LR)
    (14) OR 126W/Driveway 13           0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c     0.67 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)
a
  Numbers correspond with Technical Memorandums #2 (Existing Conditions) and #8 (Future Needs).
b
  Mobility standards apply to full signalized intersections or to worst mainline and side street movements of
  unsignalized intersections and driveways.
c
  The specific movements are identified in parenthesis. There are four approaches (NB = Northbound, SB =
  Southbound, EB = Eastbound, WB = Westbound) and three movements (L = Left, T = Through, R = Right). When
  approach lanes serve more than one movement (i.e., shared lanes), both movements are listed.
d
  Bold Shaded values do not meet mobility standards.
           Future 2035 Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance (3-Lane Alternative)
                                                                 b          th                             c,d
               a
                                          Mobility Standard               30 Highest Hour (v/c Ratio)
Intersection
                                       Mainline          Side Street         Mainline            Side Street
Signalized
    (22) OR 126W/Green Hill Rd                    0.85 v/c                               1.04
Unsignalized
    (1) OR 126W/Huston Rd              0.80 v/c              0.90 v/c      0.55 (WB-T)          0.83 (NB-LTR)
    (15) OR 126W/Ellmaker Rd           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.67 (WB-T)          0.62 (SB-LR)
    (16) OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr         0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.75 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
    (17) OR 126W/Lake Side Dr          0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.74 (WB-TR)          0.00 (NB-LTR)
    (18) OR 126W/Central Rd            0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.74 (WB-TR)          1.32 (NB-LTR)
    (19) OR 126W/Fisher Rd             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.78 (WB-TR)          0.98 (SB-LR)
    (20) OR 126W/Richmond St           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.78 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
    (21) OR 126W/Ken Nielsen Rd        0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.78 (WB-T)          0.01 (NB-LTR)
Driveways
    (2) OR 126W/Driveway 1             0.80 v/c              0.90 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    (3) OR 126W/Driveway 2             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
    (4) OR 126W/Driveway 3             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.03 (SB-LR)
    (5) OR 126W/Driveway 4             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
    (6) OR 126W/Driveway 5             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.68 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
    (7) OR 126W/Driveway 6             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    (8) OR 126W/Driveway 7             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
    (9) OR 126W/Driveway 8             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
    (10) OR 126W/Driveway 9            0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    (11) OR 126W/Driveway 10           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.68 (WB-TR)          0.07 (SB-LR)
    (12) OR 126W/Driveway 11           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.68 (WB-TR)          0.08 (SB-LR)
    (13) OR 126W/Driveway 12           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.67 (WB-TR)          0.10 (SB-LR)
    (14) OR 126W/Driveway 13           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.67 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
a
  Numbers correspond with Technical Memorandums #2 (Existing Conditions) and #8 (Future Needs).
b
  Mobility standards apply to full signalized intersections or to worst mainline and side street movements of
  unsignalized intersections and driveways.
c
  The specific movements are identified in parenthesis. There are four approaches (NB = Northbound, SB =
  Southbound, EB = Eastbound, WB = Westbound) and three movements (L = Left, T = Through, R = Right). When
  approach lanes serve more than one movement (i.e., shared lanes), both movements are listed.
d
  Bold Shaded values do not meet mobility standards.
           Future 2035 Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance (4-Lane Alternative)
                                                                 b          th                             c,d
               a
                                          Mobility Standard               30 Highest Hour (v/c Ratio)
Intersection
                                       Mainline          Side Street         Mainline            Side Street
Signalized
    (22) OR 126W/Green Hill Rd                    0.85 v/c                               0.67
Unsignalized
    (1) OR 126W/Huston Rd              0.80 v/c              0.90 v/c      0.37 (WB-T)          0.62 (SB-LTR)
    (15) OR 126W/Ellmaker Rd           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.44 (WB-T)          0.55 (SB-LR)
    (16) OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr         0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.50 (WB-T)          0.00 (SB-LR)
    (17) OR 126W/Lake Side Dr          0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.49 (WB-T)          0.00 (NB-LTR)
    (18) OR 126W/Central Rd            0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.49 (WB-T)          0.62 (NB-LTR)
    (19) OR 126W/Fisher Rd             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.52 (WB-T)          0.53 (SB-LR)
    (20) OR 126W/Richmond St           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.52 (WB-T)          0.00 (SB-LR)
    (21) OR 126W/Ken Nielsen Rd        0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.39 (WB-T)          0.01 (NB-LTR)
Driveways
    (2) OR 126W/Driveway 1             0.80 v/c              0.90 v/c      0.46 (WB-T)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    (3) OR 126W/Driveway 2             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.46 (WB-T)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    (4) OR 126W/Driveway 3             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.46 (WB-T)          0.02 (SB-LR)
    (5) OR 126W/Driveway 4             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.46 (WB-T)          0.00 (SB-LR)
    (6) OR 126W/Driveway 5             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.46 (WB-T)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    (7) OR 126W/Driveway 6             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.46 (WB-T)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    (8) OR 126W/Driveway 7             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.46 (WB-T)          0.02 (SB-LR)
    (9) OR 126W/Driveway 8             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.46 (WB-T)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    (10) OR 126W/Driveway 9            0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.46 (WB-T)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    (11) OR 126W/Driveway 10           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.45 (WB-T)          0.03 (SB-LR)
    (12) OR 126W/Driveway 11           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.45 (WB-T)          0.05 (SB-LR)
    (13) OR 126W/Driveway 12           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.44 (WB-T)          0.07 (SB-LR)
    (14) OR 126W/Driveway 13           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.45 (WB-T)          0.00 (SB-LR)
a
  Numbers correspond with Technical Memorandums #2 (Existing Conditions) and #8 (Future Needs).
b
  Mobility standards apply to full signalized intersections or to worst mainline and side street movements of
  unsignalized intersections and driveways.
c
  The specific movements are identified in parenthesis. There are four approaches (NB = Northbound, SB =
  Southbound, EB = Eastbound, WB = Westbound) and three movements (L = Left, T = Through, R = Right). When
  approach lanes serve more than one movement (i.e., shared lanes), both movements are listed.
d
  Bold Shaded values do not meet mobility standards.
        Future 2035 Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance (Spot Improvements Alt)
                                                                 b          th                             c,d
               a
                                          Mobility Standard               30 Highest Hour (v/c Ratio)
Intersection
                                       Mainline          Side Street         Mainline            Side Street
Signalized
    (1) OR 126W/Huston Rd                         0.80 v/c                               0.72
    (18) OR 126W/Central Rd                       0.70 v/c                               0.84
    (22) OR 126W/Green Hill Rd                    0.85 v/c                               1.04
Unsignalized
    (15) OR 126W/Ellmaker Rd           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.67 (WB-T)          0.62 (SB-LR)
    (16) OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr         0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.75 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
    (17) OR 126W/Lake Side Dr          0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.74 (WB-TR)          0.00 (NB-LTR)
    (19) OR 126W/Fisher Rd             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.78 (WB-TR)          0.98 (SB-LR)
    (20) OR 126W/Richmond St           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.78 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
    (21) OR 126W/Ken Nielsen Rd        0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c      0.78 (WB-T)          0.01 (NB-LTR)
Driveways
    (2) OR 126W/Driveway 1             0.80 v/c              0.90 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    (3) OR 126W/Driveway 2             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
    (4) OR 126W/Driveway 3             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.03 (SB-LR)
    (5) OR 126W/Driveway 4             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
    (6) OR 126W/Driveway 5             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.68 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
    (7) OR 126W/Driveway 6             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    (8) OR 126W/Driveway 7             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
    (9) OR 126W/Driveway 8             0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.02 (SB-LR)
    (10) OR 126W/Driveway 9            0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.69 (WB-TR)          0.01 (SB-LR)
    (11) OR 126W/Driveway 10           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.68 (WB-TR)          0.07 (SB-LR)
    (12) OR 126W/Driveway 11           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.68 (WB-TR)          0.08 (SB-LR)
    (13) OR 126W/Driveway 12           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.67 (WB-TR)          0.10 (SB-LR)
    (14) OR 126W/Driveway 13           0.70 v/c              0.75 v/c     0.67 (WB-TR)          0.00 (SB-LR)
a
  Numbers correspond with Technical Memorandums #2 (Existing Conditions) and #8 (Future Needs).
b
  Mobility standards apply to full signalized intersections or to worst mainline and side street movements of
  unsignalized intersections and driveways.
c
  The specific movements are identified in parenthesis. There are four approaches (NB = Northbound, SB =
  Southbound, EB = Eastbound, WB = Westbound) and three movements (L = Left, T = Through, R = Right). When
  approach lanes serve more than one movement (i.e., shared lanes), both movements are listed.
d
  Bold Shaded values do not meet mobility standards.
                           APPENDIX H. HIGHWAY 126 FERN RIDGE CORRIDOR PLAN




Appendix H. Highway 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Environmental
Background and Screening Evaluation Report
                                      OR 126W: Huston Road
                                      ² Green Hill Road




                     Submitted to:
                ODOT ² Region 2
                                      ENVIRONMENTAL BACKGROUND
       455 Airport Road, Building B   AND SCREENING EVALUATION
         Salem, Oregon 97301-5395
                                      REPORT ² DRAFT

                             Team:
                              DKS
                         Otak, Inc.
           Wannamaker Consulting
                           Heritage
Environmental Science & Assessment                     February 2012
This page was intentionally left blank.
REPORT AUTHORS

Identified in the following table are the authors who prepared individual rHSRUWVDQGWKHDXWKRUV·
titles and name of their affiliated organizations.

Technical Report Authors

    Technical Screening Report              Author(s)                   Title / Organization
Archaeological, Historic, and       Kathryn Toepel              President / Heritage Research
Cultural Resources                                              Assoc.
Biological Resources                Jean Ochsner                Senior Environmental Scientist /
                                                                Environmental Science &
                                                                Assessment, LLC
Transportation                      Peter Coffey, PE            Principal / DKS Associates
                                    Scott Mansur, PE, PTOE      Project Manager/DKS Associates
Wetlands                            Patrick Hendrix             Senior Wetland Scientist /
                                                                Environmental Science &
                                                                Assessment, LLC

Report Authors

   Screening Evaluation Report           Author(s) / Role               Title / Organization
                                    Jason Lien / Primary        Transportation Planner / Otak
Screening Evaluation Report
                                    Author
                                    Mandy Flett / Secondary     Planner/ Otak
Screening Evaluation Report
                                    Author
                                    Peter Coffey / Author,      Principal / DKS
Screening Evaluation Report
                                    Senior Reviewer
                                    Lynda Wannamaker /          Principal / Wannamaker
Screening Evaluation Report
                                    Author, Senior Reviewer     Consulting
This page was intentionally left blank.
                                                                                                                                              OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.      Summary ......................................................................................................................................................................................... 1
     1.1.    Study Purpose ...................................................................................................................................................................... 1
     1.2.    Report Purpose and Organization ................................................................................................................................. 1
     1.3.    Problem Statement ............................................................................................................................................................. 2
     1.4.    Alternatives Considered ................................................................................................................................................... 3
     1.5.    Environmental Background Review and Conclusions ............................................................................................... 4
     1.6.    Screening Level Evaluation and Findings ....................................................................................................................... 4
     1.7.    Stakeholder Input................................................................................................................................................................ 5
     1.8.    Conclusions and Next Steps ............................................................................................................................................ 5
2.      Introduction................................................................................................................................................................................... 6
     2.1.    Study Purpose ...................................................................................................................................................................... 6
     2.2.    Project Description and Study Area .............................................................................................................................. 6
     2.3.    Project Problem Statement .............................................................................................................................................. 7
     2.4.    Project Purpose and Need ............................................................................................................................................... 8
        2.4.1.     Statement of Purpose .............................................................................................................................................. 8
        2.4.2.     Statement of Need ................................................................................................................................................... 8
     2.5.    Project Goals and Objectives .......................................................................................................................................... 9
        2.5.1.     Goal 1: Transportation ........................................................................................................................................... 9
        2.5.2.     Goal 2: Environmental ............................................................................................................................................. 9
        2.5.3.     Goal 3: Social and Economic ................................................................................................................................. 9
        2.5.4.     Goal 4: Community Values .................................................................................................................................. 10
     2.6.    Criteria ................................................................................................................................................................................ 10
3.      Study Process .............................................................................................................................................................................. 11
     3.1.    Community Conversations and Stakeholder Input .................................................................................................. 12
     3.2.    Background Research ...................................................................................................................................................... 12
     3.3.    Field Surveys and Analysis .............................................................................................................................................. 13
     3.4.    Opportunities and Constraints ..................................................................................................................................... 13
     3.5.    Screening and Evaluation of Alternatives.................................................................................................................... 13
4.      Alternatives Overview .............................................................................................................................................................. 14
     4.1.    Overview ............................................................................................................................................................................ 14
     4.2.    Existing OR 126W Alignment ....................................................................................................................................... 15
        4.2.1.     No-Build Alternative .............................................................................................................................................. 16
        4.2.2.     Transportation System Management Alternative ........................................................................................... 16
        4.2.3.     Spot Improvements Alternative .......................................................................................................................... 16
        4.2.4.     Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative ............................................................................................................. 17
        4.2.5.     Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative ................................................................................................................ 18
     4.3.    Southern Route Along Perkins and Cantrell Roads ................................................................................................ 19
        4.3.1.     Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative ................................................... 19
        4.3.2.     Multi-Use Path Alternative ................................................................................................................................... 20
     4.4.    Northern Route around Fern Ridge Lake .................................................................................................................. 21
5.      Draft Purpose and Need Screening ...................................................................................................................................... 21
     5.1.    Alternatives Eliminated from Further Evaluation ..................................................................................................... 22
     5.2.    Alternatives Advanced for Further Evaluation .......................................................................................................... 22
6.      Environmental Considerations ............................................................................................................................................... 23
     6.1.    Introduction ....................................................................................................................................................................... 23


                                               February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                                                                    i
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


  6.2.    Air Quality .......................................................................................................................................................................... 24
     6.2.1.     Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 25
     6.2.2.     Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 25
     6.2.3.     Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 27
     6.2.4.     Conclusions .............................................................................................................................................................. 28
  6.3.    Archaeology ....................................................................................................................................................................... 28
     6.3.1.     Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 28
     6.3.2.     Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 28
     6.3.3.     Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 31
     6.3.4.     Conclusions .............................................................................................................................................................. 33
  6.4.    Biology ................................................................................................................................................................................. 34
     6.4.1.     Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 34
     6.4.2.     Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 35
     6.4.3.     Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 39
     6.4.4.     Conclusions .............................................................................................................................................................. 45
  6.5.    Energy .................................................................................................................................................................................. 46
     6.5.1.     Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 46
     6.5.2.     Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 46
     6.5.3.     Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 49
     6.5.4.     Conclusions .............................................................................................................................................................. 49
  6.6.    Geology / Geotechnical................................................................................................................................................... 49
     6.6.1.     Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 49
     6.6.2.     Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 49
     6.6.3.     Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 50
     6.6.4.     Conclusions .............................................................................................................................................................. 51
  6.7.    Hazardous Materials ........................................................................................................................................................ 51
     6.7.1.     Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 52
     6.7.2.     Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 52
     6.7.3.     Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 52
     6.7.4.     Conclusions .............................................................................................................................................................. 54
  6.8.    Historic Resources ........................................................................................................................................................... 54
     6.8.1.     Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 54
     6.8.2.     Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 57
     6.8.3.     Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 59
     6.8.4.     Conclusions .............................................................................................................................................................. 59
  6.9.    Land Use and Prime Agricultural Lands ...................................................................................................................... 61
     6.9.1.     Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 61
     6.9.2.     Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 61
     6.9.3.     Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 64
     6.9.4.     Conclusions .............................................................................................................................................................. 64
  6.10.      Noise............................................................................................................................................................................... 65
     6.10.1.    Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 65
     6.10.2.    Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 65
     6.10.3.    Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 66
     6.10.4.    Conclusions .............................................................................................................................................................. 67
  6.11.      Right-of-Way Acquisitions and Displacements .................................................................................................... 67
     6.11.1.    Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 67



          ii     Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


      6.11.2.    Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 67
      6.11.3.    Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 69
      6.11.4.    Conclusions .............................................................................................................................................................. 69
   6.12.      Parklands and Sections 4(f) and 6(f) Resources ................................................................................................... 70
      6.12.1.    Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 70
      6.12.2.    Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 70
      6.12.3.    Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 73
      6.12.4.    Conclusions .............................................................................................................................................................. 73
   6.13.      Socioeconomics and Environmental Justice .......................................................................................................... 74
      6.13.1.    Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 74
      6.13.2.    Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 74
      6.13.3.    Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 76
      6.13.4.    Conclusions .............................................................................................................................................................. 78
   6.14.      Traffic and Transportation ........................................................................................................................................ 78
      6.14.1.    Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................... 78
      6.14.2.    Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................... 78
      6.14.3.    Findings ...................................................................................................................................................................... 98
      6.14.4.    Conclusions ........................................................................................................................................................... 130
   6.15.      Utilities ........................................................................................................................................................................ 137
      6.15.1.    Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................ 137
      6.15.2.    Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................ 137
      6.15.3.    Findings ................................................................................................................................................................... 138
      6.15.4.    Conclusions ........................................................................................................................................................... 139
   6.16.      Visual and Aesthetic Resources ............................................................................................................................ 139
      6.16.1.    Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................ 139
      6.16.2.    Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................ 139
      6.16.3.    Findings ................................................................................................................................................................... 140
      6.16.4.    Conclusions ........................................................................................................................................................... 141
   6.17.      Hydrology and Hydraulics ...................................................................................................................................... 141
      6.17.1.    Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................ 141
      6.17.2.    Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................ 141
      6.17.3.    Findings ................................................................................................................................................................... 144
      6.17.4.    Conclusions ........................................................................................................................................................... 144
   6.18.      Wetlands and Jurisdictional Waters of State and U.S. .................................................................................... 144
      6.18.1.    Data Sources and Collection ............................................................................................................................ 145
      6.18.2.    Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans ........................................................................................................ 145
      6.18.3.    Findings ................................................................................................................................................................... 147
      6.18.4.    Conclusions ........................................................................................................................................................... 148
   6.19.      Cumulative Effects .................................................................................................................................................... 150
   6.20.      Opportunities and Constraints ............................................................................................................................. 151
      6.20.1.    Archaeological Constraints ............................................................................................................................... 153
      6.20.2.    Biological Constraints ......................................................................................................................................... 153
      6.20.3.    Historic Resources Constraints ...................................................................................................................... 155
      6.20.4.    Transportation Constraints .............................................................................................................................. 155
      6.20.5.    Wetlands and Water Resources Constraints .............................................................................................. 156
7.    Alternatives Evaluation .......................................................................................................................................................... 157
   7.1.    Methods ........................................................................................................................................................................... 157



                                             February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                                                               iii
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


   7.2.    Evaluation Criteria and Measures .............................................................................................................................. 158
      7.2.1.     Transportation ..................................................................................................................................................... 158
      7.2.2.     Environmental....................................................................................................................................................... 158
      7.2.3.     Social and Economic ........................................................................................................................................... 159
      7.2.4.     Community Values ............................................................................................................................................. 159
   7.3.    Rating and Ranking of Alternatives ........................................................................................................................... 159
      7.3.1.     Archaeological ...................................................................................................................................................... 168
      7.3.2.     Biological ................................................................................................................................................................ 170
      7.3.3.     Historic Resources .............................................................................................................................................. 171
      7.3.4.     Transportation ..................................................................................................................................................... 173
      7.3.5.     Wetlands and Water Resources ..................................................................................................................... 175
   7.4.    Summary .......................................................................................................................................................................... 177
   7.5.    Alternatives Recommended for Further Consideration ..................................................................................... 177
   7.6.    Alternatives Recommended for Elimination from Further Consideration ..................................................... 178
8.    Outreach Program .................................................................................................................................................................. 178
   8.1.    Input Process .................................................................................................................................................................. 179
   8.2.    Project Management Team ......................................................................................................................................... 179
   8.3.    Stakeholder ..................................................................................................................................................................... 180
      8.3.1.     Stakeholders ......................................................................................................................................................... 180
      8.3.2.     Interviews .............................................................................................................................................................. 180
   8.4.    Stakeholder Focus Groups .......................................................................................................................................... 183
   8.5.    Community Forums ...................................................................................................................................................... 184
   8.6.    Display Outreach and Speaking Engagements ........................................................................................................ 186
   8.7.    Email Updates ................................................................................................................................................................. 186
   8.8.    Project Web Site ........................................................................................................................................................... 186
   8.9.    Decision-Makers ............................................................................................................................................................ 186
   8.10.      Summary of Stakeholder Input .............................................................................................................................. 187
9.    Recommended Alternatives and Next Steps ................................................................................................................... 188
   9.1.    Recommended Alternatives ........................................................................................................................................ 188
   9.2.    Next Steps ....................................................................................................................................................................... 188
10.      Permits and Approvals ...................................................................................................................................................... 189
11.      Glossary of Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Terms .................................................................................................... 191
12.      References ............................................................................................................................................................................ 194  


LIST OF TABLES
Table 6.1. Table of Human and Natural Resource Issues and Considerations ..................................................................... 24
Table 6.2. Observed Species List from July 14, 2011 Field Reconnaissance .......................................................................... 34
Table 6.3. USFWS Species List for Lane County, Oregon and Potential Occurrence within Project Area ................. 36
Table 6.4. Federally and State Listed Species Documented in Project Area ......................................................................... 42
Table 6.5. Racial Composition within Census Tracts .................................................................................................................. 77
Table 6.6. ODOT Mobility Standardsa Applicable for OR 126 (from OHP Table 6) .......................................................... 85
Table 6.7. Applicable ODOT Access Management Standards (from 1999 OHP, Appendix C, Table 14) .................... 89
Table 6.8. Existing Roadway Characteristics (Study Area)...................................................................................................... 101
Table 6.9. ODOT and Lane County Mobility Standards a ........................................................................................................ 105
Table 6.10 Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance 30th highest hour ......................................................................... 109
Table 6.11. Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance Average Annual Weekday Peak ............................................. 110



            iv      Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                                                                                  OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Table 6.12. Existing Left-Turn Lane Criteria (Intersections without Left-Turn Lanes) ................................................... 111
Table 6.13 Existing Right-Turn Lane Criteria (Intersections without Right-Turn Lanes) ............................................... 112
Table 6.14. OR 126W Collision Rates Compared with Statewide Averages (2005 to 2009) ....................................... 115
Table 6.15. Collision Severity on OR 126W (2005 to 2009) ................................................................................................. 115
Table 6.16. Route 93 (Veneta) Transit Service .......................................................................................................................... 117
Table 6.17. OR 126 Accesses ......................................................................................................................................................... 122
Table 6.18. Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance ......................................................................................................... 126
Table 6.19 2035 Left-Turn Lane Criteria (Intersections without Left-Turn Lanes) ......................................................... 127
Table 6.20. 2035 Right-Turn Lane Criteria (Intersections without Right-Turn Lanes) ................................................... 128
Table 6.21 OR 126 Segment Operations Analysis Results ...................................................................................................... 129
Table 7.1. Tier 1 Criteria, Measures, and Evaluation Scores .................................................................................................. 160
Table 8.1. Focus Group Participation ........................................................................................................................................... 183
Table 8.2. Input Summary from Focus Groups .......................................................................................................................... 183
7DEOH5HVSRQVHWR+DQGRXW4XHVWLRQ´:KDWDOWHUQDWLYHVGR\RXSUHIHU"µ ............................................................. 185
Table 8.4. Summary of Speaking Engagements ........................................................................................................................... 186
Table 10.1.      Possible Permits Required ................................................................................................................................. 190


LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 2.1. Project Study Area ............................................................................................................................................................. 7
Figure 4.1. Range of Alternatives Current Facility ........................................................................................................................ 15
Figure 4.2. Existing OR 126W Alignment: No-Build Alternative ............................................................................................. 16
Figure 4.3. Existing OR 126W Alignment: Spot Improvements Alternative .......................................................................... 17
Figure 4.4. Existing OR 126W Alignment: Spot Improvements Alternative with Multi-Use Path Design Option ...... 17
Figure 4.5. Existing OR 126W Alignment: Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative ............................................................. 18
Figure 4.6. Existing OR 126W Alignment: Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative ................................................................ 19
Figure 4.7. Southern Route: Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative ............................. 20
Figure 4.8. Southern Route: Multi-Use Path Alternative ............................................................................................................ 20
Figure 4.9. Northern Route around Fern Ridge Lake Alignment: Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning
Lanes Alternative................................................................................................................................................................................... 21
Figure 6.1. Project Study Area ........................................................................................................................................................... 24
Figure 6.2. Designated Critical Habitat............................................................................................................................................ 41
Figure 6.3. Potential Hazardous Material Sites .............................................................................................................................. 53
Figure 6.4. 1853-54 General Land Office Survey plat showing the boundaries of the Project Study Area and current
roadways. ................................................................................................................................................................................................ 55
)LJXUH86*6(OPLUDDQG(XJHQH·TXDGUDQJOHVVKRZLQJWKHERXQGDULHVRIWKH3URMHFW6WXG\$UHD
1922). ....................................................................................................................................................................................................... 56
Figure 6.6. Boundaries of the Project Study Area on the USGS Elmira-(XJHQH·TXDGUDQJOHV .......... 56
Figure 6.7. BounGDULHVRIWKH:HVWHUQ3RUWLRQRIWKH3URMHFW6WXG\$UHD86*69HQHWD·TXDGUDQJOH ... 60
Figure 6.8. Boundaries of the Eastern Portion of the Project Study Area (USGS Veneta and Eugene :HVW·
quadrangles, 1975 and 1984).............................................................................................................................................................. 61
Figure 6.9. Census Tracts in Project Study Area .......................................................................................................................... 77
Figure 6.10. Proposed Projects within Study Area ....................................................................................................................... 97
Figure 6.11. OR 126W Fern Ridge Facility Plan Study Area ................................................................................................... 100
Figure 6.12. Daily Motor Vehicle Traffic Characteristics ......................................................................................................... 102
Figure 6.13. Bi-Directional Volume Comparison by Hour of the Day (Summer Weekday) .......................................... 102
Figure 6.14. Bluetooth Origin-Destination Survey Directional Split and Percentages ..................................................... 103



                                                 February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                                                                       v
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Figure 6.15. 30th Highest Hour Traffic Volumes......................................................................................................................... 106
Figure 6.16. Average Annual Peak Hour Traffic Volumes ....................................................................................................... 107
Figure 6.17. OR 126W Collisions Relative to Vehicle-Miles Traveled (Five Year Rolling Average) ............................ 113
Figure 6.18. Collision Locations (1994 to 2009) ........................................................................................................................ 114
Figure 6.19. OR 126W Collision Types (2005 to 2009) .......................................................................................................... 116
Figure 6.20. Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities and Activity on OR 126W ............................................................................ 117
Figure 6.21. Transit Routes ............................................................................................................................................................. 118
Figure 6.22. Railroad Crossings ...................................................................................................................................................... 120
Figure 6.23. Access Locations ......................................................................................................................................................... 122
Figure 6.24. Future 2035 30th Highest Hour Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................ 124
Figure 6.25. Potential Wetlands and Water Resources within Project Study Area ......................................................... 148
Figure 6.26. Opportunities and Constraints ............................................................................................................................... 152
Figure 8.1. Public Involvement Process ........................................................................................................................................ 179


APPENDIX

Appendix A ² Technical Memorandum #1, OR 126W Fern Ridge Facility Plan ² Transportation Review of Plans,
Policies, Regulations, and Standards

Appendix B ² Technical Memorandum #2, OR 126W Fern Ridge Facility Plan ² Existing Transportation Conditions

Appendix C ² Technical Memorandum #8, OR 126W Fern Ridge Facility Plan ² Future Travel Forecasts and Needs
Analysis

Appendix D ² Technical Memorandum #9, OR 126W Fern Ridge Facility Plan ² Develop and Evaluate Alternatives

Appendix E ² Highway 126: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ² Public Involvement Plan

Appendix F ² Highway 126: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ² Stakeholder Database




            vi     Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




1. SUMMARY

1.1. Study Purpose

The OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan study is a component of a larger multi-phase effort to
develop solutions for improving the portion of OR 126W between the cities of Veneta and Eugene.
The six-mile OR 126W corridor is referred to as the Florence-Eugene Highway (Highway 62)
between Huston Road (Milepoint 47.84) and Richmond Street (Milepoint 52.69) and referred to as
the Beltline Highway (Highway 69) between Richmond Street (Milepoint 0) and Green Hill Road
(Milepoint 1.28).This first phase of the project includes developing a preliminary understanding and
inventory of the transportation and environmental conditions in the Corridor, identifying facility
deficiencies and opportunities, creating and evaluating conceptual alternative solutions, and
preparing a Corridor Plan, which includes recommendations for the most viable solutions that can
be implemented within the foreseeable future (+/- 20 year planning horizon).

It is anticipated that Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) will utilize federal funds for
the implementation of a proposed solution (an improvements project). Because ODOT will use
federal funds, the project will be required to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act
(NEPA) and other relevant federal, state and local laws and regulations. Subsequent project phases
would develop and select one or more preferred alternatives to advance to detailed design, analyze
the environmental impacts of the action, complete the appropriate NEPA environmental
documentation for decision making purposes, and prepare preliminary and final design and
construction documents for the preferred alternative.

1.2. Report Purpose and Organization

The purpose of this report is to summarize (1) transportation and environmental background
information and (2) the findings and recommendations of a screening level review of concept
alternatives for the Fern Ridge Corridor. This report will be used by decision makers to determine
which conceptual alternatives should be advanced for further evaluation and eventual
implementation. This report is organized as follows:

   Chapter 2. Introduction: This chapter describes the purpose of the study, the project and its
   study area, the problem statement for the project, the secondary goals and objective to be
   achieved by the project, and the criteria used to evaluate conceptual alternatives.
   Chapter 3. Study Process: This chapter provides a description of the study process.
   Chapter 4. Alternatives Overview: This chapter describes the conceptual alternatives
   considered in this screening level evaluation.



                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   1
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


   Chapter 5. Problem Statement: This chapter describes the findings from screening conceptual
   alternatives for their ability to meet the &RUULGRU·VSXUSRVHVWDWHPHQWDQGHVWDEOLVKHVWKH
   foundation for the draft Purpose and Need and identifies the alternatives advanced for further
   evaluation.
   Chapter 6. Environmental Considerations: This chapter presents the transportation and
   environmental conditions in the Corridor. For each environmental discipline, there is a
   discussion of the data sources and collection methods; relevant regulations, policies and plans;
   transportation and environmental conditions; and, conclusions relevant to the project. This
   chapter also includes a discussion of the resulting opportunities and constraints to alternative
   solutions in the Corridor.
   Chapter 7. Alternatives Screening and Evaluation: This chapter presents the findings from
   screening the conceptual alternatives advanced from the Purpose and Need screening and
   recommendations for eliminating alternatives from further consideration and advancing
   alternatives to the next level of evaluation.
   Chapter 8. Outreach Program: This chapter summarizes the stakeholder input process and
   input received about the action at various phases in the project.
   Chapter 9. Recommended Alternatives and Next Steps: This chapter presents
   recommended alternatives to move forward to the next phase of evaluation.
   Chapter 10. Permits and Approvals: This chapter presents a listing of potential permits and
   approvals that may be required for implementation of corridor improvements.
   Chapter 11. Glossary of Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Terms: This chapter includes
   definitions for acronyms, abbreviations and terms used in this report.
   Chapter 12. References: This chapter lists the references and sources consulted in preparing
   this report.

1.3. Problem Statement

OR 126 West (OR 126W) between Eugene and Veneta is a two-lane highway that has existing multi-
modal, safety, and operational needs that are expected to worsen over time. The highway provides
an important regional connection for commuters, freight, residents and tourists traveling between
the two cities and to the Oregon Coast. However, the highway travels through an environmentally
sensitive area and has limited connectivity and available right-of-way due to the adjacent railroad
tracks and the Fern Ridge Reservoir. The Oregon Department of Transportation is conducting the
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan to identify and evaluate a range of alternatives that would improve
WKHKLJKZD\·s safety and function in order to meet safety and mobility needs for all transportation
system users.




      2   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




1.4. Alternatives Considered

There are eight alternatives under consideration within three general transportation alignments:
existing OR 126W, southern route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads, and a northern alternate route
around Fern Ridge Lake.

The existing OR 126W alignment is bound on the west by Huston Road and on the east by Green
Hill Road. Five preliminary alternatives (with one design option for each build alternative) within the
corridor study alignment are proposed for consideration including the No-Build, or no action,
Alternative:
    No-Build Alternative
    Transportation System Management Alternative
    Spot Improvements Alternative
    o Design Option: With Adjacent Multi-Use Path
    Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative ² Causeway on Dike (Earth/Rock)
    o Design Option: Causeway on Piers
    Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative ² Causeway on Dike (Earth/Rock)
    o Design Option: Causeway on Piers

The alignment for the southern route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads is bound on the west by
Huston Road and connects to OR 126W at Green Hill Road. The study alignment would follow
Perkins Road and Cantrell Road. Two potential alternatives along this alignment include:
   Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative
   Multi-Use Path Alternative

Under the northern route, there is one alternative to connect and improve existing facilities
wherever possible. The route would utilize Green Hill, Clear Lake, and Territorial Roads to
circumnavigate the north side of the lake from Eugene to Veneta. This alternative would modernize
these existing facilities to a two-lane cross section with intersection turning lanes.

A No-Build AlternativeRIWHQFDOOHGD´QRDFWLRQµDOWHUQative, was also considered. No
improvements would be made under this alternative, except for improvements already planned for
in state and regional transportation planning programs (i.e., Lane County Transportation System
Plan (TSP), City of Veneta TSP, Metropolitan Transportation Improvement Program (MTIP), State
Transportation Improvement Program (STIP)). This alternative provides a basis for comparing the
potential benefits and impacts of the other alternatives under consideration.




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   3
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




1.5. Environmental Background Review and Conclusions

An assessment of existing conditions occurred for the various disciplines under consideration.
Particularly sensitive resources in the corridor include wetlands and water resources, Section 4(f)
resources (public parkland and wildlife refuge area), and rare plant critical habitat. Other regulatory
and constraining features in the project study area include the railroad line paralleling the south side
of OR 126W and Lane County-zoned farmland. As alternatives are refined, consideration must be
given to avoiding and minimizing impacts to these resources. More detail regarding resource lands
and possible regulatory requirements is provided in Section 6.

1.6. Screening Level Evaluation and Findings

The purpose of the screening effort is to determine which alternatives hold the most promise in
WHUPVRIPHHWLQJWKHSURMHFW·Vdraft Purpose and Need statement and its goals and objectives and,
therefore, should be carried forward to future phases of the project for further consideration. A
two-step process was used to narrow the broader range of alternatives to a smaller range of
alternatives for further study. The screening process evaluates each alternative in terms of its
potential adverse or beneficial effect to the project area environment. This included consideration of
a number of issues including traffic conditions, access, pedestrian and bicycle circulation, economic
development, effects to parks and natural resources, and compliance with local plans, among others.
The two steps used in this study were:

    Screening for Purpose and Need. The first level of screening gauges whether an alternative
    addresses the project·V draft Purpose and Need (described in Section 2.4). For the range of
    alternatives listed in Section 1.3 and further described in Chapter 4, six of the alternatives (plus
    three design options) have the potential to address the project·V Purpose and Need and were
    recommended for advancement to the next level of evaluation (the criteria evaluation). The two
    alternatives not recommended for advancement were the Northern Route around Fern Ridge
    Lake and the Multi-Use Path along the OR 126Wsouthern route.
    Evaluation of Criteria. In the criteria evaluation, the advanced alternatives were scored based
    on the project criteria³the higher the point total the better the alternative is in meeting the
    project·V draft goals and objectives. The scoring totals show the OR 126W Four-Lane Cross
    Section Alternative as the highest ranked, with the Causeway - Piers Design Option scoring
    slightly better than the Causeway - Dike Design Option. This alternative scored well by
    providing the greatest level of operational and safety improvements to the highway. Spot
    Improvements Alternative with the Multi-Use Path Design Option was the third highest ranked
    alternative. The OR 126W Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative followed next in the ratings,
    with the Causeway on Piers Design Option in the fourth position and the primary alternative


       4   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


   (Causeway on Dike) as the fifth highest scoring alternative. At the lower end of the scoring
   range were the No-Build and TSM Alternatives, which failed to meet the essential transportation
   objectives for the project.

1.7. Stakeholder Input

Stakeholder interviews and focus groups were conducted May through September 2011. Input from
WKHVHHIIRUWVZDVXVHGWRGHYHORSWUDQVSRUWDWLRQVROXWLRQVDQGEHWWHUXQGHUVWDQGWKH&RUULGRU·V
transportation and environmental conditions.

Throughout the planning process for the Fern Ridge Corridor Plan the public and key stakeholders
have had many opportunities to provide comment on the project area, draft problem statement,
Purpose and Need, goals and objectives, and transportation solutions. On October 6, 2011, ODOT
held the first community forum for participants to hear about the project and its progress, learn
about alternatives under consideration, and to brainstorm additional alternatives. Input from the first
FRPPXQLW\IRUXPZDVXVHGWRUHILQHWKHSURMHFW·Vdraft Purpose and Need, develop its goals and
objectives, criteria, and provided information for consideration in the screening and evaluation of
alternatives.

In early 2012, ODOT plans to hold two additional community forums for stakeholders to review
the findings and recommendations of this report (January 2012) and the findings and
recommendations of more detailed transportation evaluation of the advanced alternatives (April
2012).

Members of the community may also stay up to date on the proMHFW·VSURJUess by checking the
project website at www.highway126.org.

1.8. Conclusions and Next Steps

Based on the outcome of the screening process as well as public and agency input, the technical
team recommends the following alternatives advance for further evaluation:
   OR 126W Four-Lane Cross Section Causeway on Dike (Earth/Rock)
   OR 126W Four-Lane Cross Section Causeway on Piers Design Option
   OR 126W Three-Lane Cross Section Causeway on Dike (Earth/Rock)
   OR 126W Three-Lane Cross Section Causeway on Piers Design Option
   OR 126W Spot Improvements with Multi-Use Path Design Option
   No-Build




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   5
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




The technical team also recommends:
   TSM strategies be considered to supplement the possible capital improvements. Implementation
   of TSM strategies can help ensure more efficient use of transportation investments in the long
   term and should be considered along with the package of capital improvements.
   A phased approach be considered where the near term solution would include spot
   improvements on OR 126W and, as funding allows, the multi-use path and complete two/three-
   lane or four-lane highway improvements could be implemented over time.


2. INTRODUCTION
This section outlines the study purpose and key components of the decision-making process,
including the LGHQWLILHGSUREOHPVLQWKH&RUULGRUDQGWKHSURMHFW·Vdraft Purpose and Need and its
goals and objectives which were used as the basis for the alternatives screening evaluation.

2.1. Study Purpose

The OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan study is a component of a larger multi-phase effort to
develop solutions towards addressing the deficiencies and improving OR 126W between the cities of
Veneta and Eugene. This first phase of the project includes developing an understanding of the
transportation and environmental conditions in the Corridor, identifying transportation deficiencies
and opportunities, creating and evaluating conceptual alternative solutions, and preparing a Corridor
Plan, which includes recommendations for the most viable solutions.

It is anticipated, if needed, ODOT will utilize federal funds for the implementation of a proposed
improvements project. If ODOT uses federal funds, the project would be required to comply with
the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and other relevant federal, state, and local laws and
regulations. Subsequent project phases would develop environmental documentation, select one or
more preferred alternatives to advance for further or detailed analysis, and prepare preliminary and
final design and construction documents for the preferred alternative.

2.2. Project Description and Study Area

ODOT, Region 2, is developing a facility-level transportation Corridor Plan to identify issues and
develop solution concepts to address operational and safety problems for a segment of highway on
OR 126W (Florence Eugene Highway and Beltline Highway) between the cities of Veneta and
Eugene (Figure 2.1). The study area includes the rural area between the cities of Veneta and Eugene.
This area represents a manageable section of the highway that, unlike within the two cities, where
transportation system plans have been prepared, has received little detailed analysis. ODOT also did
not want to interfere with ongoing planning activities in Eugene aimed at identifying and evaluating

      6   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


potential long-term multimodal options for the west Eugene area. The outcome of this process will
be, after screening evaluation of a range of potential alternatives, a set of preferred improvements to
address the operational and safety issues in the project study area.

This facility-level corridor planning project is the first phase in what could be a three phase
documentation process that eventually culminates in construction of one or more projects along this
portion of OR 126W. As currently envisioned, these three planning phases are described as follows:
    Phase 1: Transportation Corridor Plan to identify system-level facility needs and recommend a
    range of improvements to be advanced into Phase 2.
    Phase 2: Project environmental documentation, to meet NEPA requirements, necessary to select
    and advance the preferred alternative to preliminary and final design and construction.
    Phase 3: Preliminary and final design and preparation of construction plans for the preferred
    alternative.

Figure 2.1. Project Study Area




This segment of highway serves many users, including access to local residences and businesses, and
for through commuter, freight and tourist travel. This section of OR 126W is designated as a
Statewide Highway and freight route and has a posted speed of 55 mph in the project study area.
OR 126W has many private driveways connecting directly to the highway as well as numerous
intersections with county roads and limited turn lanes on the highway, and is lacking in passing or
slow moving vehicle turnout opportunities. There are no convenient parallel roads to help collect
traffic and relieve pressure from the highway. Highway improvement options are also limited by a
parallel rail facility and the Fern Ridge Lake.

2.3. Project Problem Statement

OR 126W between Eugene and Veneta is a two-lane highway that has existing multi-modal, safety,
and operational needs that are expected to worsen over time (see section 6.14. for transportation
safety and operational findings that support the needs identified below). The highway provides an
important regional connection for commuters, freight haulers, residents, and tourists traveling

                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   7
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


between the two cities and to the Oregon Coast. The highway travels through an environmentally
sensitive area and has limited connectivity and available right-of-way due to a parallel rail facility and
the Fern Ridge Lake. The ODOT is conducting the OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan to identify
DQGHYDOXDWHDUDQJHRIDOWHUQDWLYHVWKDWZRXOGLPSURYHWKHKLJKZD\·VVDIHW\DQGIXQFWLRQLQRUGHUWR
meet safety and mobility needs for all transportation system users.

2.4. Project Purpose and Need

7KHSURMHFW·Vpreliminary Purpose and Need Statement was approved by the Project Management
Team (PMT) on September 27, 2011. The Purpose states the intent of the project; the Need
identifies why the project is important.

2.4.1. Statement of Purpose
The purpose of the OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan is to:
   Develop a transportation facility plan
   Address multi-modal safety and operational problems
   Identify potential facility improvement options

2.4.2. Statement of Need
The need for the OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan is to more thoroughly identify and evaluate
the existing safety and operational functions that must be addressed on the OR 126W corridor
between the cities of Eugene and Veneta (see section 6.14. for transportation safety and operational
findings that support the needs identified below). These functions include:

Safety
    Higher crash rate than other similar facilities throughout the state
    High amount of fatalities or debilitating injuries per year
    Impeded emergency response times during incidents
    High number of collisions in areas where there is a higher density of access points to properties,
    businesses and public lands
    Drivers traveling at speeds higher than the posted speeds

Operations
    Limited capacity to accommodate traffic volumes during the summer
    Variety of roadway users with varying travel patterns and driving characteristics including local,
    commuter, freight and tourist trips
    Lack of accommodations for all modes
    Limited opportunities for passing




       8   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                             OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


2.5. Project Goals and Objectives

Specific goals were developed for the OR 126W study corridor and address the areas of
transportation, environmental, social and economic, and community values. These goals are
identified below along with associated objectives.

2.5.1. Goal 1: Transportation
Provide a multi-modal transportation system from Veneta to Eugene to meet existing and future
safety and mobility needs for all transportation system users.

Objective A.     Improve safety for pedestrians, bicyclists, motor vehicles, freight, and transit
Objective B.     Encourage use of alternative transportation modes
Objective C.     Maintain/enhance motor vehicle/freight mobility and traffic flow
Objective D.     Support freight mobility along the corridor
Objective E.     Improve safety and efficiency at railroad crossings
Objective F.     Avoid or minimize impacts to the railroad
Objective G.     Improve reliability for emergency vehicles
Objective H.     Provide a facility that meets future growth in the corridor
Objective I.     Where appropriate support opportunities in the corridor for future rail transit service

2.5.2. Goal 2: Environmental
Minimize the impacts to local environmental and community resources while incorporating
opportunities to enhance those resources.

Objective A.     Avoid or minimize adverse impacts to local environmental, visual, and community
                 resources
Objective B.     Support/seek opportunities for enhancements to local environmental and
                 community resources

2.5.3. Goal 3: Social and Economic
Support the economic viability of the region including industrial, commercial, recreational, and
tourist activities; protect the livability and integrity of the residential areas; provide a financially
viable project.

Objective A. Support and enhance multi-modal access for the residential, commercial,
             recreational, and tourist areas
Objective B. Improve freight movement throughout the corridor
Objective C. Enhance transportation facilities which are accessible to all members of the
             community
Objective D. Support adopted economic plans


                         February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report     9
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Objective E. Minimize capital costs while meeting project objectives
Objective F. Minimize disruption to the community resulting from highway construction and
             operation
Objective G. Maximize the cost effectiveness of transportation system investments
Objective H. Minimize impacts to private properties and farmland
Objective I. 6XSSRUWUDLOUHODWHGIUHLJKWRSSRUWXQLWLHVIRU9HQHWD·VLQGXVWULDODUHDV

2.5.4. Goal 4: Community Values
Be consistent with the adopted long term goals and policies of the community and the region.

Objective A.     Support community/regional facilities
Objective B.     Consistent with adopted state, county, regional, and local Transportation System
                 Plans and policies

2.6. Criteria

Draft criteria were prepared for use in evaluating and comparing improvement alternatives. These
criteria will help ensure the greatest consistency between the draft Purpose and Need and Goals and
Objectives and the recommended improvement alternative(s) for the OR 126W study corridor.

Transportation
   Reduce potential conflict points such as intersections and driveways
   Improve pedestrian safety and accessibility
   Improve bicycle safety and accessibility
   Improve overall traffic safety
   Improve east/west vehicle capacity
   Improve mobility along corridor, including freight
   Support public transit service
   Improve emergency vehicle response time
   Minimize impacts to the railroad for freight movements
   Strive to meet ODOT mobility standards
   Minimize impacts to the railroad that limit opportunities for future rail transit

Environmental
   Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to Fern Ridge Lake
   Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to other environmentally sensitive
   natural resource areas
   Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to identified historical resources.
   Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to cultural resources
   Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to visual resources


     10   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                             OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


    Provide, maintain, and improve access to existing parkland and recreational facilities, where
    practicable
    Be consistent with Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW) Fern Ridge Wildlife Area
    Plan

Social and Economic
    Support community livability by improving multi-modal access to residential areas
    Support community livability and economics by improving multi-modal access to commercial
    areas
    Support community livability and economics by improving multi-modal access to
    recreational/tourist areas
    Support area economic vitality by improving roadway geometrics for freight movements
    Provide transportation facilities which are accessible to all community members and users1
    Consistent with City of Veneta Economic Development Strategic Plan
    Consistent with Lane County Regional Economic Development Strategies
    Minimize impacts to properties along the corridor
    6XSSRUWUDLORSSRUWXQLWLHVIRU9HQHWD·s industrial areas

Community Values
    Improve access opportunities to Fern Ridge Lake along the corridor
    Improve access to Perkins Peninsula County Park
    Be consistent with Oregon Highway Plan
    Be consistent with Oregon Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan
    Be consistent with Lane County Transportation System Plan
    Be consistent with Fern Ridge Path System: Visions and Strategies
    Be consistent with City of Veneta Comprehensive Plan
    Compliant with Lane County Land Use Code
    Support regional bicycle/pedestrian plans
    Support planned parkland and recreational facilities, where practicable
    Be consistent with U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) Fern Ridge Operational
    Management Plan


3. STUDY PROCESS
The study purpose is to assess existing and future traffic and safety conditions within the segment of
OR 126W between the cities of Veneta and Eugene and to identify facility needs and deficiencies
and potential solutions . The process began with community conversations, stakeholder interviews,
review of existing data, and analysis of existing and future traffic conditions to develop an

1
  All  pedestrian  facilities  will  be  designed  to  comply  with  Americans  with  Disabilities  Act  (ADA)  requirements.  


                              February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                     11
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


understanding of the transportation problems and issues in the Corridor and how those problems
might be solved. Next, a range of potential solutions that could potentially resolve the problems
(also called transportation improvement alternatives) were developed. These solutions were further
refined using criteria based on community input and research on natural resource, land use,
transportation, and regulatory opportunities and constraints in the Corridor

3.1. Community Conversations and Stakeholder Input

Working with key stakeholders and the community, a Problem 6WDWHPHQWWKHSURMHFW·Vdraft
Purpose and Need, a set of goals and objectives, and evaluation criteria were developed. The goals
and objectives used in this study are consistent with the Transportation Planning Rule (TPR), the
Lane County Comprehensive Plan, 2'27·V transportation policies, and community values. Project
goals and objectives are also consistent with NEPA and informed the recommended range of
possible transportation solutions. Additional input on the drafts RIWKHSURMHFW·V3XUSRVHDQG1HHG
its goals and objectives and preliminary range of alternatives were gathered at a Community Forum
on October 6, 2011. This input was used in the evaluation process.

The community will have the opportunity to review and provide input on the recommendations in
this report at a Community Forum in January 2012 and on the Facilities Plan at a Forum in May
2012.

A more detailed description of the community involvement process is described in Chapter 8 of this
report.

3.2. Background Research

State and local planning documents were reviewed for relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies
within and between documents. Based upon the findings, review memos were developed derived
from existing plans, policies, rules, regulations, and standards for the following disciplines:
    Acquisitions and Displacements
    Air Quality
    Energy
    Environmental Justice
    Geology / Geotechnical
    Hazardous Materials
    Land Use and Prime Agricultural Lands
    Noise
    Parklands and Section 4(f) and 6(f) Resources
    Socioeconomics
    Utilities


     12   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


   Hydrology and Hydraulics including Floodplains and Stormwater Management
   Wetlands and Jurisdictional Waters of State and U.S.
   Visual and Aesthetic Resources
   Archaeological Resources
   Cultural/Historic Resources
   Biological Resources

3.3. Field Surveys and Analysis

Due to their sensitive nature, field surveys were conducted for the following disciplines::
   Archaeological Resources
   Cultural/Historic Resources
   Biological Resources
   Wetlands and Jurisdictional Waters of State and U.S.

Technical memoranda were prepared documenting the findings of the baseline conditions
information from readily available existing studies and data and the field surveys.

Concurrent to the field surveys, an analysis was conducted for existing and future transportation
conditions, including:
   Existing transportation and freight system inventories
   Existing intersection/segment operating conditions
   Collision history
   Public transportation conditions

This analysis was documented in several technical memoranda and used during the screening
process.

3.4. Opportunities and Constraints

Using information from the background research and field surveys, an opportunities and constraints
exercise was conducted to identify known environmental resources that may either constrain or
provide project development opportunities. These findings were used to inform the range of
alternatives, as discussed in Chapter 4.

3.5. Screening and Evaluation of Alternatives

Using a two-step process, the broader range of alternatives was narrowed to a smaller range of
alternatives for further study. The first step in the process considered whether or not alternatives
PHWWKHSURMHFW·Vdraft Purpose and Need. The second step in the process used the pURMHFW·Vcriteria


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   13
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


in Section 2.6 to evaluate each alternative in terms of its potential adverse or beneficial effect to the
project area environment. This included consideration of a number of issues including existing and
future traffic conditions, access, pedestrian and bicycle circulation, economic development, effects
to parks and natural resources, and compliance with local plans, among others. Through screening
DQGHYDOXDWLRQDJDLQVWWKHSURMHFW·Vdraft Purpose and Need and criteria based on the projeFW·V goals
and objectives, the most viable alternatives were identified.

The project study also considered regulatory issues from interested agencies. This includes, but is
not limited to, the USACE, ODFW, Oregon Department of State Lands (DSL), and Lane County.
By considering the range of disciplines that would typically appear in a NEPA analysis,
environmental issues and potential regulatory requirements were identified.

The shorter list of most viable alternatives is a recommendation for project decision-makers to
consider for advancement for further study. This report documents the screening and evaluation and
alternatives selection process.


4. ALTERNATIVES OVERVIEW
This section describes each of the study alignments and transportation improvement alternatives
within each alignment that were considered in this screening and evaluation.

4.1. Overview

Through interviews, focus groups, and a community forum, project stakeholders and the general
public were consulted regarding study alignments and improvement alternatives. For this project,
three study alignments were proposed for improving safety and congestion in the OR 126W
Corridor (Figure 4.1):
    Existing OR 126W Alignment
    Southern Route Along Perkins and Cantrell Roads
    Northern Route around Fern Ridge Lake

Within each study alignment, transportation improvement alternatives were proposed. Some
transportation improvement alternatives also included design options to allow for flexibility. Each of
the study alignments and the associated transportation improvement alternatives are described
below. Chapter 5 describes the screening of alternatives to determine which alternatives meet the
SURMHFW·V3XUSRVHDQG1HHG$OWHUQDWLYHVPHHWLQJWKHSURMHFW·V3XUSRVHDQG1HHGZHUHDGYDQFHG
for further evaluation based on the SURMHFW·VJRDOVDQGREMHFWLYHVWKLVHYDOXDWLRQLVGHVFULEHGLQ
Chapter 7.




      14   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


4.2. Existing OR 126W Alignment

The existing OR 126W alignment is bound to the west by Huston Road and to the east by Green
Hill Road (Figure 4.1). Five preliminary alternatives within this study alignment are proposed for
consideration. The No-Build, or no action, Alternative and Transportation System Management
Alternative (TSM) will be addressed in this evaluation as a baseline comparison to the build
alternatives.
    No-Build Alternative
    TSM Alternative
    Spot Improvements Alternative
    o Design Option: With Adjacent Multi-Use Path
    Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative ² Causeway on Dike (Earth/Rock)
    o Design Option: Causeway on Piers
    Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative ² Causeway on Dike (Earth/Rock)
    o Design Option: Causeway on Piers

Figure 4.1. Range of Alternatives Current Facility




                         February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   15
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




4.2.1. No-Build Alternative
Under the No-Build Alternative the road would remain as it is today (Figure 4.2). Current
maintenance levels would be maintained, however, no major capital improvement projects would be
undertaken.

Figure 4.2. Existing OR 126W Alignment: No-Build Alternative




4.2.2. Transportation System Management Alternative
Under the TSM Alternative the existing roadway cross section would be maintained. The purpose of
a TSM Alternative is to provide a lower cost alternative that would increase the number of person-
trips accommodated along the corridor by improving the existing facility without major capital
construction. These measures and strategies could include, but are not limited to, improved signing,
improved roadway delineation, access management techniques, additional park-and-ride lots, an
enhanced rideshare program, and improved pedestrian and bicycle access to transit stations. Further
options may be investigated throughout the planning process.

4.2.3. Spot Improvements Alternative
Under the Spot Improvements Alternative the existing roadway cross section would be maintained
or modified where practical (Figure 4.3). Examples of spot improvements include the construction
of an additional turn lane along portions of the highway (passing lanes are not considered to be spot
improvements), improvements at specific intersections (such as right or left turn lanes), shoulder
widening along portions of the highway, or bike lanes in shoulder areas.




     16   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Figure 4.3. Existing OR 126W Alignment: Spot Improvements Alternative




Multi-Use Path Design Option
Under the Spot Improvements Alternative, a Multi-Use Path Design Option could be added to the
range of improvements along OR 126W (Figure 4.4). The separated multi-use path would be
constructed to the south of OR 126W (and north of Cantrell and Perkins Roads).

Figure 4.4. Existing OR 126W Alignment: Spot Improvements Alternative with Multi-Use Path Design
Option




4.2.4. Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative
Under the Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative the existing OR 126W roadway cross section
would be expanded to a three-lane cross section plus widened shoulders (or bike lanes) (Figure 4.5).
Additional intersection improvements and driveway access modifications may also be included as
necessary. The third travel lane could be a center turn lane or a passing lane as appropriate. The
proposed improvements would be constructed on the existing earthen/rock dike along the OR
126W alignment as it traverses the Fern Ridge Lake area (see the inset below for an example). The


                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   17
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


existing dike could need to be expanded to accommodate the wider roadway. There is one design
option for this alternative:

Design Option ² Causeway on Piers
The proposed improvements for this Design Option are the same as the primary alternative except
for the replacement of the existing earthen/rock dike system with pier supports for the highway as it
traverses the Fern Ridge Lake area (see the inset below for an example). Where supported on piers,
the roadway surface would maintain its current approximate elevation but allow improved water
flow under the highway.

Figure 4.5. Existing OR 126W Alignment: Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative




4.2.5. Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative
Under the Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative the existing OR 126W roadway cross section would
be expanded to a four-lane cross section plus widened shoulders (or bike lanes)(Figure 4.6).
Additional intersection improvements and driveway access modifications may also be included as
necessary. The proposed improvements would be constructed on the existing earthen/rock dike
along the OR 126W alignment as it traverses the Fern Ridge Lake area (see the inset above for an
example). The existing dike would need to be expanded to accommodate the wider roadway. There
is one design option for this alternative:




     18   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Design Option ² Causeway on Piers
The proposed improvements for this Design Option are the same as the primary alternative except
for the replacement of the existing earthen/rock dike system with pier supports for the highway as it
traverses the Fern Ridge Lake area (see the inset above for an example). Where supported on piers,
the roadway surface would maintain its current approximate elevation but allow improved water
flow under the highway.

Figure 4.6. Existing OR 126W Alignment: Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative




4.3. Southern Route Along Perkins and Cantrell Roads

The alignment for the southern route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads is bound to the west by
Huston Road and to the east by Green Hill Road (Figure 4.1). The study alignment would follow
Perkins Road and Cantrell Road before connecting to OR 126W. Two potential alternatives along
this alignment include:
    Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative
    Multi-Use Path Alternative

4.3.1. Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative
Under the Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative, the existing
facilities of Perkins Road and Cantrell Road would be connected and improved wherever possible.
The cross section could be constructed as a two-lane roadway with intersection turning lanes plus
widened shoulders (or bike lanes) as needed (Figure 4.7).




                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   19
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



Figure 4.7. Southern Route: Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative




4.3.2. Multi-Use Path Alternative
Under the Multi-Use Path Alternative, a multi-use path would be constructed parallel to the existing
facilities of Perkins Road and Cantrell Road; no other roadway improvements would be constructed
(Figure 4.8). The purpose of this alternative is to provide improved connectivity and safety for non-
motorized transportation. A separated path would provide continuous facilities for pedestrians and
bicyclists to travel between Veneta and Eugene and would allow a buffer between roadway traffic
and users of the multi-use path.

Figure 4.8. Southern Route: Multi-Use Path Alternative




     20   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




4.4. Northern Route around Fern Ridge Lake

Under this alternative, existing facilities north of OR 126W would be connected and improved
wherever possible. The route would utilize Green Hill Road, Clear Lake Road, and Territorial Road
to circumnavigate the lake from Eugene to Veneta. These existing roads are two-lane facilities. The
cross section would be constructed as a two-lane roadway with intersection turning lanes plus
widened shoulders (or bike lanes) as needed (Figure 4.9).

Figure 4.9. Northern Route around Fern Ridge Lake Alignment: Two-Lane Cross Section with
Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative




5. DRAFT PURPOSE AND NEED SCREENING
7KHILUVWOHYHORIVFUHHQLQJJDXJHVZKHWKHUHDFKDOWHUQDWLYHLVFRQVLVWHQWZLWKWKHSURMHFW·Vdraft
Purpose and Need. The SURMHFW·Vdraft Purpose and Need Statement describes the issues the project
is intending to solve and explains the desired outcome (described in Section 2.4). In this case, the
SURMHFW·Vpurpose is to develop a facility-level transportation corridor plan that addresses multi-
modal safety and operational problems in the OR 126W corridor. A component of this process is
identification of potential facility improvement options. The need for the OR 126W Fern Ridge
Corridor Plan is based on existing safety and operational functions that must be addressed in the
corridor including high crash rate and fatalities or debilitating injuries, impeded emergency response
times, vehicles traveling higher than posted speeds, conflicts between roadway users and travel
modes, and limited capacity to accommodate increased traffic volumes during summer (see section
6.14. for more detail).

As described in Chapter 4, a range of transportation improvement alternatives within three study
alignments has been proposed: improvements to OR 126W or improvements to an alternate facility


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   21
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


to the north or to the south of OR 126W to ease the traffic burden on OR 126W. At this stage of
the project, the range of alternatives under consideration is the broadest and includes all options
proposed by project stakeholders and the community.

All of the alternatives described in Chapter 4 were screened to determine if they would potentially
PHHWWKHSURMHFW·Vdraft Purpose and Need. If an alternative did not adequately meet the SURMHFW·V
draft Purpose and Need, then it was eliminated from further consideration. Alternatives that could
DGHTXDWHO\PHHWWKHSURMHFW·Vdraft Purpose and Need were advanced for further evaluation. The
exception is that the No-%XLOG$OWHUQDWLYHUHJDUGOHVVRIZKHWKHULWFDQDGHTXDWHO\PHHWWKHSURMHFW·V
draft Purpose and Need, is advanced because it provides a basis of comparison for all of the
alternatives.

5.1. Alternatives Eliminated from Further Evaluation

Based on the screening of the broad range of alternatives, two alternatives are not recommended for
further evaluation:
    Northern Route around Fern Ridge Lake
    Southern Route Along Perkins and Cantrell Roads Multi-Use Path Alternative.

Although the Northern Route Alternative would improve facilities on the north end of the lake with
the intent of offering travelers an alternate route to OR 126W. This alternative would require too
much out-of-direction travel to serve as a viable parallel facility to the highway, approximately
doubling the travel distance for all modes between Veneta and Eugene from about 7 miles to over
14 miles. Consequently, operational conditions on OR 126W would not significantly change and the
essential purpose of the project would not be met. In addition, further widening of the roadway to
accommodate pedestrian travel would be limited due to the alignment being adjacent to Fern Ridge
Lake. This also fails to meet the intent of a multi-modal transportation system from Veneta to
Eugene. For these reasons, the Northern Route Alternative was not advanced for further evaluation.

The Multi-Use Path Alternative on the southern route does not address operational and safety
problems on OR 126W because it is solely focused on non-motorized transportation away from the
highway alignment. Traffic deficiencies on OR 126W would not be addressed, which is not
consistent with the project·V draft Purpose and Need. By failing to address the fundamental need for
this project, the Multi-Use Path Alternative was not advanced for further evaluation.

5.2. Alternatives Advanced for Further Evaluation

Four alternatives (and three design options) have the potential to address the project·V draft Purpose
and Need and were advanced for further evaluation:



     22   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Existing OR 126W Alignment
    Spot Improvements Alternative
    o Design Option: With Adjacent Multi-Use Path
    Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative ² Causeway on Dike (Earth/Rock)
    o Design Option: Causeway on Piers
    Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative ² Causeway on Dike (Earth/Rock)
    o Design Option: Causeway on Piers

OR 126W Southern Route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads
    Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative

The listed alternatives have the potential to meet existing and future safety and mobility needs for all
transportation system users, and therefore were considered in the criteria evaluation (described in
Chapter 7). In addition, the No-Build Alternative was also considered in the evaluation and, as noted
above, will be carried through to future NEPA-level analysis. While the TSM Alternative was not
advanced as a stand-alone alternative, some of the TSM measures may be considered to supplement
the three OR 126W alignment alternatives because they can help ensure more efficient use of
transportation investments in the long term.


6. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
This section pertains to previously inventoried or known information regarding environmental
resources, concerns, and issues within the project study area, and which may be affected by a
proposed action or have an influence during the alternatives screening and evaluation process.

6.1. Introduction

The study of environmental resource concerns within the project area utilized existing database
information and records and identified applicable laws and regulations (Figure 6.1). As a result,
potential environmental constraints may be appropriately considered and addressed when project
alternatives and options are recommended. Due to their sensitive nature the following disciplines
completed field surveys and screening level technical memoranda using baseline conditions
information from readily available studies and data:
    Archaeological Resources
    Cultural/Historic Resources
    Biological Resources
    Wetlands and Waters of State and U.S.



                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   23
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




The discipline background summary in Section 6.2 identifies the known environmental features that
will be considered during development of the Corridor Plan. Additional study will be required for all
the discipline areas as alternatives are advanced for further consideration in future phases of the
project (Table 6.1).

Figure 6.1. Project Study Area




Table 6.1. Table of Human and Natural Resource Issues and Considerations
                                                 Requires Further
           Environmental Discipline                                                Comments
                                                      Study
 Acquisitions and Displacements                        Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Air Quality                                           Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Energy                                              Possibly                See appropriate section.
 Geology / Geotechnical                                Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Hazardous Materials                                   Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Land Use and Prime Agricultural Lands                 Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Noise                                                 Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Parks and Recreation Resources and Section 4f         Yes                   See appropriate section.
 and 6f Resources
 Socioeconomics and Environmental Justice              Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Utilities                                             Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Water Resources including Floodplains and             Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Stormwater Management
 Wetlands and Waters of State and U.S.                 Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Visual and Aesthetic Resources                        Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Archaeological Resources                              Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Cultural/Historic Resources                           Yes                   See appropriate section.
 Biological Resources                                  Yes                   See appropriate section.


6.2. Air Quality

This section summarizes potential air quality requirements for the study corridor consistent with
federal, state, and local standards.



      24   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




6.2.1. Data Sources and Collection
An internet search was conducted and local transportation plans were consulted to determine air
quality requirements. The Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) website was a
source for air quality regulations consistent with the Federal Clean Air Act.

6.2.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

Federal
Clean Air Act (CAA)
This comprehensive public law forms the basis for a broad range of regulations that control
allowable emissions and concentrations of air pollutants in the environment. The Clean Air Act
Amendments of 1990 set the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for key pollutants,
including ozone (O3), carbon monoxide (CO), and particulate matter (PM10). Areas that do not meet
the NAAQS are designated in varying degrees of nonattainment, from marginal to extreme
(depending on the pollutant). Nonattainment areas must submit air quality implementation plans
and must integrate transportation and air quality planning in order to meet the standards.
Maintenance areas are geographic areas that had a history of nonattainment, but are now
consistently meeting the NAAQS. Maintenance areas must submit air quality implementation plans
and must integrate transportation and air quality planning in order to stay in attainment of the
standards. The Eugene-Springfield region is designated as a maintenance area for CO and designated
as a nonattainment area for PM10. Vehicles are not a significant source of PM10 in the region.

&)5(3$´1DWLRQDO3ULPDU\DQG6HFRQGDU\$LU4XDOLW\6WDQGDUGVµ86&RGHRI)HGHUDO
Regulations.
The federal government has established NAAQS to protect the public from air pollution.
Geographic areas where concentrations of a pollutant exceed the ambient air quality standards are
classified as nonattainment areas (i.e., do not attain standards). Previously designated nonattainment
areas now in compliance with air quality standards are classified as maintenance areas. Areas that
meet the standards are classified as attainment areas (attain standards). Federal regulations require
states to prepare State Implementation Plans (SIPs) that identify emission reduction strategies for
nonattainment and maintenance areas.

FHWA Interim Guidance on Mobile Source Air Toxic Analysis in NEPA
This provides guidance on mobile source air toxics (MSAT) analysis in NEPA documents. The
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) developed a tiered approach for analyzing MSAT in
NEPA documents, depending on specific project circumstances. The FHWA has identified three


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   25
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


levels of analysis based on the type of project and location. As the science progresses FHWA will
continue to revise and update this guidance.

State
2$5'LYLVLRQ'(4´7UDQVSRUWDWLRQ&RQIRUPLW\µ
The transportation conformity regulations establish criteria and procedures for determining
conformity with SIPs. This rule covers transportation plans, programs, and projects in Oregon that
are developed, funded, or approved by the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) and
by metropolitan planning organizations (MPOs) or other recipients of funds under Title 23 of the
U.S.C. or the Federal Transit Laws.

2UHJRQ$GPLQLVWUDWLYH5XOH2$5'LYLVLRQ'(4´$PELHQW$LU4Xality Standards and
36',QFUHPHQWVµ
In addition to the NAAQS, DEQ has established State Ambient Air Quality Standards (SAAQS)
that are almost the same as the NAAQS. The state has slightly stricter standards for sulfur dioxide
emissions. This air pollutant comes from industrial sources such as power plants and smelters, not
from motor vehicle traffic.

Regional and Local
Lane County Comprehensive Plan
The general purpose of the comprehensive plan is the guiding of the social, economic, and physical
development of the County to best promote public health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity,
and general welfare.

The comprehensive plan contains a series of air quality policies, mainly regarding cooperation with
State and Federal Agencies in programs that reduce air pollution. The Lane Regional Air Protection
Agency (LRAPA) governs air quality issues in Lane County.

Central Lane MPO Regional Transportation Plan
The Central Lane Metropolitan Planning Organization (CLMPO) Regional Transportation Plan
(RTP) guides regional transportation system planning and development in the CLMPO metropolitan
area. The RTP includes provisions for meeting the transportation demand of residents over a 20-
year planning horizon while addressing transportation issues and making changes that can contribute
WRLPSURYHPHQWVLQWKHUHJLRQ·VTXDOLW\RIOLIHDQGHFRQRPLFYLWDOLW\7KH032ERXQGDU\H[WHQGV
beyond Eugene and Springfield to include Coburg. Its western boundary is located a short distance
west of Green Hill Road, extending into the eastern portion of the Corridor Plan study area.

In terms of air quality, the plan states that projects using federal funds or are regionally significant
for air quality purposes must be included in the Metropolitan Transportation Improvement Program
(MTIP) and the Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP). If the RTP is updated and
amended, the state rule on air quality requires that the MTIP be updated within 6 months (with the


     26   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


exception of minor amendments). The RTP must demonstrate compliance with federal and state air
quality requirements.

The plan acknowledges that the Eugene-Springfield region is designated as a maintenance area for
CO and a nonattainment area for PM10. The region had petitioned the EPA that vehicles are not a
significant emission source for PM10; therefore transportation is exempt from demonstrating area-
wide regional conformity for PM10. Regional emissions analysis for CO is required for all
transportation plans, programs, and projects located within the Central Area Transportation Study
boundary. This boundary encompasses the greater downtown Eugene area and does not apply to the
OR 126W study area.

Lane Regional Air Protection Agency (LRAPA)
LRAPA was created in 1968 to achieve and maintain clean air in Lane County. The agency works
collectively with other local governments and community groups to help achieve federal Clean Air
Act goals and objectives. Its member entities include Lane County and the cities of Eugene,
Springfield, Cottage Grove, and Oakridge. LRAPA has stationary source regulations that could
apply to hot asphalt and concrete mix plants as well as general particulate matter (PM) regulations
that could apply to construction activities in or within five miles of the municipal boundaries of the
City of Eugene or the City of Springfield. For those projects within five miles, LRAPA Indirect
Source Regulations (Title 20) require that construction of new or modified parking areas greater than
249 spaces or highway construction/modification that meets certain Average Daily Traffic (ADT)
thresholds obtain an Indirect Source Construction Permit.

6.2.3. Findings
The Corridor Plan study area is adjacent to a nonattainment area for PM10 and a maintenance area
for CO. Motor vehicles are not considered a significant source of PM10 in the region. Expansion of
highway capacity does not conflict with air quality regulations per se, but the selected project
alternative may need to be incorporated into the MTIP and STIP and examined with metropolitan
area transportation projects to ensure continued conformity with federal and state CO standards
(the eastern terminus of the project study area is within the Central Lane MPO). The OR 126W
Corridor Plan is listed in both the MTIP and STIP as a corridor planning exercise. Mobile source air
toxics will be addressed, including consideration of the type of analysis needed, during the future
NEPA phase of the project. It is possible that alternatives that decrease congestion can serve as a
benefit to air quality.

During construction, attention should be paid to managing particulate matter through use of
commonly applied best management practices for dust abatement, etc. Consultation with LRAPA
may be required to determine preferred construction practices. In the NEPA phase of the project,
air quality analysis would verify if an Indirect Source Construction Permit would be required from
LRAPA.



                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   27
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


6.2.4. Conclusions
The proposed project improvements are adjacent to a non-attainment area (Eugene-Springfield) but
the proposed project improvements would be located in an attainment area. Therefore it is not likely
that Clean Air Act requirements would apply. Air quality would be a technical discipline analyzed in
the NEPA phase of the project if modernization alternative(s) were advanced for further study.

6.3. Archaeology

The archaeology screening considers the potential effects of the conceptual alternatives on potential
subsurface and cultural resources.

6.3.1. Data Sources and Collection
This section describes data sources and the methods used to collect and evaluate data to determine
archaeological considerations for the project.

Area of Potential Effect
The area of potential effect (APE) for archaeological resources is confined to locations that will be
directly impacted by the project, including locations where historical structures would be removed
by the proposed project. The proposed APE requires review and approval by the Oregon State
Historic Preservation Office (SHPO). SHPO will review the APE once the extent of direct
landscape alterations and the indirect impacts to traffic patterns of the project are known. Further,
the APE may be modified as a result of the project·s analysis of potential impacts.

Data Sources
Heritage Research Associates, Inc. (Heritage) conducted documentary research using primary and
secondary source materials on file at Oregon SHPO (to identify properties designated as National
Register listed or eligible, or Statewide Planning Goal 5-protected historic resources), Lane County,
and other appropriate archives, and included the following sources:
    Oregon SHPO National Register and State Inventory files
    Historical maps and records

Records Review
The archaeological site records maintained by the SHPO in Salem, Oregon were reviewed to locate
previously reported archaeological sites in or near the project area, as well as previous cultural
resources surveys and other archaeological investigations that have been conducted in the area. The
review of the SHPO site and project files indicate that five archaeological sites have been recorded
in the project area and 20 cultural resources investigations have been conducted either within or in
close proximity to the project area boundaries.

6.3.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for

     28   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

The purpose of the archaeological resource evaluation is to ensure that the proposed project
complies with laws, regulations, and policies set forth at the federal, state, and local levels. The
extent to which these historic resource laws and regulations might apply to this project will depend
upon the resources encountered within the project area. The analysis will comply with the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA),
applicable state environmental policy legislation, and local and state planning policies. The following
federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations addressing archaeological, historic, and
cultural resources may apply to the Corridor Plan.

Federal
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C. 4321-4347.
The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires that federal agencies consider
environmental impacts before taking actions that could significantly affect the human environment.
As interpreted by the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), NEPA requires that "reasonably
foreseeable" direct, indirect, and cumulative effects of a proposed action be considered in the
decision making process. The term "effects" includes "aesthetic, historic, cultural, economic, social,
or health" effects.

National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 16 U.S.C. 470,
(http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/html/uscode16/usc_sec_16_00000470----000-.html).
This act is the primary authority used in complying with the nation's cultural resources protection
objectives.

Antiquities Act of 1906, 16 U.S.C. 431-433, (http://www.cr.nps.gov/local-law/anti1906.htm).
This act protects historic, prehistoric ruins, monuments, or objects of antiquity located on lands
owned or controlled by the U.S. Government.

Historic Sites Act of 1935, 16 U.S.C. 461-467, (http://www.cr.nps.gov/local-
law/FHPL_HistSites.pdf).
This act is a basic authority for the Secretary of the Interior to adopt rules and regulations
concerning historic properties.

Section 4(f), Department of Transportation Act of 1966, 49 U.S.C. 303, 23 U.S.C. 138,
(http://www.environment.fhwa.dot.gov/projdev/pd5sec4f.asp).
This act requires that there be no constructive use for a highway project of historic sites, in addition
to publicly owned parks, recreation areas, and wildlife and waterfowl refuges, unless there is no
prudent and feasible alternative to the use of such land.



                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   29
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974, 16 U.S.C. 469 (http://www.cr.nps.gov/local-
law/FHPL_ArchHistPres.pdf).
This statute requires that federal agencies preserve historical and archaeological data (including relics
and specimens) that might otherwise be irreparably lost or destroyed as the result of any alteration of
the terrain resulting from any federal construction project or federally licensed activity or program.
The Act greatly expanded the number and range of federal agencies that must take archeological
resources into account when executing, funding, or licensing projects.

Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act of 1990 (25 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.)
This act applies in situations where certain Native American cultural items, including human
remains, funerary objects, sacred objects, and objects of cultural patrimony, are encountered. It
provides a process to museums and federal agencies for return of such items to lineal descendants,
culturally affiliated Native American tribes, and Native Hawaiian organizations. It is implemented
through 43 CFR 10 regulations.

36 CFR Part 800, Protection of Historic Properties (http://www.achp.gov/regs-rev04.pdf).
This regulation sets forth the process by which federal agencies account for the effects of their
undertakings on historic properties eligible for the National Register of Historic Places. It outlines
the procedures for how federal agencies meet these statutory responsibilities.

36 CFR Part 63 (http://archnet.asu.edu/Topical/CRM/usdocs/36cfr63.html).
These regulations explain how federal agencies can identify and evaluate the eligibility of properties
for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places.

40 CFR 1508.27 (http://www.nepa.gov/nepa/regs/ceq/1508.htm#1508.27).
This regulation provides guidance on defining significance thresholds for various environmental
disciplines, specifically pertaining to project impacts.

Executive Order 11593
(http://www.gsa.gov/Portal/gsa/ep/contentView.do?contentType=GSA_BASIC&contentId=12094).
This order directs federal agencies to protect and enhance cultural sites, including those non-
federally owned, through inventory and evaluation.

State
Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS) 97.740-97.760 (Indian Graves and Protected Objects)
(http://www.leg.state.or.us/ors/097.html), 358.905-358.955 (Archaeological Objects and Sites)
(http://www.leg.state.or.us/ors/358.html), and 390.235 (Permit and Conditions for Excavation or
Removal of Archaeological or Historical Materials) (http://www.leg.state.or.us/ors/390.html).
These statutes protect Native American artifacts and human remains, including prohibiting the
destruction or alteration of archaeological sites and objects on private or public lands in Oregon
without a state permit.


     30   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


ORS 358.653 (http://www.leg.state.or.us/ors/358.html).
This statute requires that any state agency or political subdivision responsible for real property of
historic significance must, in consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO),
institute a program to conserve the property and assure that such property will not be inadvertently
transferred, sold, demolished, substantially altered or allowed to deteriorate.

Oregon Statewide Planning Goal 5 (OAR 660-023-0000) Natural Resources, Scenic and Historic
Areas, and Open Spaces (http://www.lcd.state.or.us/LCD/docs/goals/goal5.pdf).
Under Goal 5, local governments throughout Oregon have adopted programs that will protect
natural resources and conserve scenic, historic, and open spaces resources. Cultural areas, including
historic and archaeological resources, are among the resources recommended for inventory by local
governments and state agencies.

Local
Historic Structures of Sites Combine Zone (/H-RCP).
The Lane County Code 16.233, Historic Structures of Sites Combine Zone (/H-RCP), is an
ordinance providing for review of building permits or demolition permits for historic structures or
sites to ensure preservation. Permits are required for the alteration or demolition of a historic
structure or site. Only minimum alteration of historic structures or sites or their environment shall
be allowed in order to achieve the intended use, and the distinguishing original qualities or character
of a historic building, structure, or site and its environment should not be destroyed.

6.3.3. Findings

Reported Sites
The archaeological site records maintained by the State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) in
Salem, Oregon were reviewed to locate previously reported archaeological sites in or near the project
area, as well as previous cultural resources surveys and other archaeological investigations that have
been conducted in the area. The review of the SHPO site and project files indicate that five
archaeological sites have been recorded in the project area and 20 cultural resources investigations
have been conducted either within or in close proximity to the project area boundaries.

In addition to the sites located within the project area, over a hundred prehistoric and historic
archaeological sites have been recorded just north of the project area on the floor of Fern Ridge
Reservoir (Cheatham 1988; Musil 2005, 2006). Most of these sites line the banks of the Long Tom
River and Coyote Creek and their tributaries, and were exposed by erosion caused by the seasonal
draining and filling of the reservoir. The exposure of large numbers of sites on the floor of the
reservoir due to erosional processes suggests that large numbers of buried sites are also located
along portions of those same stream channels that lay outside of the reservoir pool.


Although the specific locations of archaeological sites are exempted from public disclosure
in order to protect them, areas in which sites are likely to be located must be identified


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   31
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


and assessed in order to minimize potential impacts. For the OR 126W corridor, those
likely site areas occur on terraces above waterways, above wetlands, and along drainages.
Project Reports
A total of 20 cultural resources reports on file at SHPO present the results of archaeological
investigations that have been conducted within or directly adjacent to the project area. Eleven of the
previously reported projects include or abut portions of the project area, and nine are located just
outside of the project boundaries. Seven of projects have been conducted along OR 126W and the
railroad tracks south and east of Oak Hill in the northeast corner of the project area. These projects
included either pedestrian surveys or subsurface probing in areas slated for bridge replacement, road
improvements, and substation construction (Baxter and Bottman 2005; Cabebe and Tasa 2008;
&RQQROO\)LQOH\2HWWLQJ2·1HLOODQG&RQQROO\3HWWLJUHZ These
projects resulted in the discovery of historic sites 35LA1458 and 35LA1459 (Cabebe and Tasa 2008)
DQGDQLVRODWHGIODNHXQLIDFH2·1HLOODQG&RQQROO\6).

A cultural resources survey was conducted in 2010 along the proposed Veneta Water Delivery
System corridor that traverses the southern portion of the project area. No cultural resources were
reported during that survey (Palmer 2010).

The three remaining projects were all located within the boundaries of the Fern Ridge Lake Project.
The first project undertaken was a cultural resources survey of selected portions of Fern Ridge Lake
for the State of Oregon, Department of Fish and Wildlife in 1981 (Minor 1978). This survey covered
a relatively large area in the east-central portion of the present project area, and resulted in the
discovery of site 35LA281 along Coyote Creek.

The next project consisted of the archaeological investigations conducted at the Perkins Peninsula
Site (35LA282) in 1983-84. Cultural deposits at this site were encountered both on higher ground
above the Lake pool in the park and along the banks of the Middle Fork of Coyote Creek on the
lake floor (Cheatham 1988).

In 2005 a resurvey of the Fern Ridge Lake drawn-down zone was conducted that included a portion
of the project area. This survey recorded 95 previously reported sites, as well as recording 22 new
sites (Musil 2006), although none of these sites were located in the present project area.

In addition to the projects conducted within the project area, nine cultural resources surveys have
been completed in close proximity to the project boundaries. Most of these projects were associated
with various agency and privately funded development and improvement projects (Baxter 1981;
Bryson 1995; Connolly 1998; Musil 2004a, 2004b; Southard 1996; Toepel 1985; Tveskov 1994;
Wernz 2007). These projects resulted in the recording of four isolated artifacts (Tveskov 1994), a
prehistoric site and an historic barn (Baxter 1981), and a 1950s historic trash dump (Musil 2004a), all
located within a quarter mile of the project area.



     32   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Tribal Consultation
Tribes that may be interested in the proposed project have been identified but no Tribes have been
contacted. Tribes that may be interested in the project are the Confederated Tribes of the Grand
Ronde Community of Oregon and the Confederated Tribes of the Siletz Indians. This screening
report will be sent to the Tribes to initiate a dialogue regarding this planning project and identify any
potential issues or concerns.

6.3.4. Conclusions
A review of previous archaeological research in or near the project area, especially the surveys
conducted in Fern Ridge Reservoir, shows that prehistoric sites tend to be located along rivers and
streams, and at slightly higher elevations at the ecotone between forest areas and the floodplain. In
fact, the data suggest that the site distribution pattern observed within the lake most likely extends
into the project area, but dense vegetation and the lack of erosion in areas outside of the lake means
that the sites are buried, and are very difficult to locate. Therefore, in order to find these sites it
would be necessary to use subsurface discovery techniques along any proposed project alignments to
enhance site discovery.

Once a project alignment has been chosen and advanced to the next phase of study (NEPA phase),
the following actions are recommended:
    An intensive survey supplemented with subsurface discovery probes to identify archaeological
    sites that may be affected by the proposed project.
    If an archaeological site is eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP)
    and cannot be avoided, subsurface exploration and/or testing and evaluation of the site would
    be required. Additionally, if an NHRP eligible archaeological site cannot be avoided, efforts
    should be made to minimize impacts and data recovery may be needed.
    Prepare ODOT Determinations of Eligibility for all archaeological sites and Traditional Cultural
    Properties identified.
    Document background research and fieldwork in a technical report meeting SHPO guidelines.
    ODOT archaeologist continue and complete Tribal consultation with the Confederated Tribes
    of the Grand Ronde Community of Oregon and the Confederated Tribes of the Siletz Indians,
    including drafting a Finding of Effect and submitting final reports to SHPO.
    Identify water quality facilities, staging areas, disposal areas, and material sources as early as
    practicable and clear for archaeological resources early in the Preliminary Design process. If
    ODOT does not provide the contractor with these locations prior to bid let, the contractor
    would be responsible for hiring an archaeological consultant to examine these areas after bid let.
    A qualified archeological monitor and / or Tribal monitor may be retained to monitor ground
    disturbing activities.

6.4. In the unlikely event that buried cultural materials or human remains are exposed during
     construction, Oregon State laws (ORS 97.740 to 97.760, 358.905 to 358.955, and 390.235), as


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   33
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


     well as various federal laws and regulations that may be applicable to this project, require that
     work in the vicinity of any such finds immediately be suspended. The FHWA, SHPO, ODOT,
     and Lane County should be notified, and a professional archaeologist engaged to evaluate the
     significance of the find and recommend a subsequent course of action in consultation with the
     SHPO, HAP, City, and appropriate Indian tribes. Biology

The biological screening considers the potential effects of the conceptual alternatives on potential
habitat for sensitive plant and animal species.

6.4.1. Data Sources and Collection
The section describes data sources and the methods used to collect and evaluate data to determine
biological considerations for the project.

Environmental Science & Assessment, LLC (ES&A) reviewed existing data and prepared a
Biological Resources Plans, Policies, Regulations and Standards Review Memorandum dated June 8,
2011 (ES&A 2011). ES&A conducted a reconnaissance-level field survey of the project alternatives
on July 14 and July 15, 2011. The reconnaissance-level field survey identified potential habitat for
sensitive plant and animal species. Observed wildlife species were noted during the field
reconnaissance (Table 6.2).

Table 6.2. Observed Species List from July 14, 2011 Field Reconnaissance
                                                                     Location observed by
        Common Name                      Scientific Name                                       Federal/State Status
                                                                          Alternative
                                                                                    Parallel
                                                                    OR 126W
                                                                                     South
                                                            Birds
 Scrub/grassland
 Cedar wax wing                 Bombycilla cedrorum                     x               x
 Violet-green swallow           Tachycineta thalassina                  x               x
 Barn swallow                   Hirundo rustica                         x               x
 Turkey vulture                 Cathartes aura                          x               x
 American crow                  Corvus brachyrhynchos                   x               x
 American robin                 Turdus migratorius                      x               x
 Song sparrow                   Melospiza melodia                       x               x
 Rock dove                      Columba livia                           x
 European starling              Sturnus vulgaris                        x               x
 Spotted towhee                 Pipilo maculatus                        x               x
 Western scrub-jay              Aphelocoma californica                  x               x
 Red-tailed hawk                Buteo jamaicensis                       x               x
 Canada goose                   Branta canadensis                       x               x
 American White pelican         Pelecanus erythrorhynchos               x                              SV*
 Northern harrier               Circus cyaneus                          x               x
 6ZDLQVRQ·VWKUXVK               Catharus ustulatus                      x               x
Table 6.2. Observed Species List from July 14, 2011 Field Reconnaissance (Cont.)
                                                                     Location observed by
        Common Name                      Scientific Name                                       Federal/State Status
                                                                          Alternative
                                                                                    Parallel
                                                                    OR 126W
                                                                                     South



      34    Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


                                                                            Location observed by
            Common Name                       Scientific Name                                             Federal/State Status
                                                                                 Alternative
                                                                                           Parallel
                                                                           OR 126W
                                                                                            South
 White-crowned Sparrow               Zonotrichia leucophrys                   x
 Open water
 Western grebe                       Aechmophorus occidentalis                 x
 &ODUN·VJUHEH                        Aechmophoru clarkii                       x
 American coot                       Fulica americana                          x
 Red-winged black bird               Agelaius phoeniceus                       x               x
 Pied-billed grebe                   Podilymbus podiceps                       x
 Black tern                          Chlidonias niger                          x                                FSOC*
 Cliff swallow                       Petrochelidon pyrrhonota                  x               x
 Marsh wren                          Cistothorus palustris                     x
 Common egret                        Ardea alba                                x
 Great blue heron                    Ardea herodias                            x               x
 Riparian/Forested Wetland
 House finch                         Carpodacus mexicanus                                      x
 Black-capped chickadee              Parus atricapillus                                        x
 Western bluebird                    Sialia mexicana                                           x                  SV*
 Red-breasted nuthatch               Sitta canadensis                                          x
 Northern flicker                    Colaptes auratus                                          x
 Bank swallow                        Riparia riparia                                           x
 Belted kingfisher                   Ceryle alcyon                                             x
 Ring necked pheasant                Phasianus colchicus                                       x
 Western kingbird                    Tyrannus verticalis                                       x
 &DVVLQ·VILQFK                       Carpodacus cassinii                                       x
 American kestrel                    Falco sparverius                                          x
 Yellow warbler                      Dendroica petechia                                        x
 Western wood-pewee                  Contopus sordidulus                                       x
 Bush tit                            Psaltriparus minimus                                      x
 American gold finch                 Carduelis tristis                                         x
 Hermit thrush                       Catharus guttatus                                         x
                                                                 Mammals
 Common raccoon                      Procyon lotor                             x
 Virginia opossum                    Didelphis virginiana                      x
 Black-tailed deer                   Odocoileus hemionus                       x               x
                                                              Amphibians
 Bullfrog                            Rana catesbeiana                                          x
Source: OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan Biological Resources Technical Report. Environmental Science & Assessment. August 2011.
SV = Sensitive-Vulnerable        FSOC = Federal Species of Concern

6.4.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.




                              February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                  35
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Federal
U.S. Fish and Wildlife (USFWS) Species List for Lane County (USFWS, 2011)
Table 6.3 includes federally listed species identified by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS)
as potentially occurring within Lane County, Oregon. Based on a preliminary review by
Environmental Science & Assessment, LLC (ES&A), the last column in Table 6.3 identifies whether
the proposed project area is located within the range of the listed species.

Table 6.3. USFWS Species List for Lane County, Oregon and Potential Occurrence within Project Area
                                                                                               Critical      Project within
         Common Name                               Scientific Name                Status
                                                                                               Habitat       Species Range
                                                                 Birds
 Marbled murrelet                   Brachyramphus marmoratus                        LT           CH                No
 Western snowy plover               Charadrius alexandrinus nivosus                 LT           CH                Yes
 Short-tailed albatross             Phoebastria albatrus                            LE           No                No
 Northern spotted owl               Strix occientalis caurina                       LT           CH                No
                                                       Reptiles and Amphibians
 Loggerhead sea turtle              Caretta caretta                                 LE           No                No
 Green sea turtle                   Chelonia mydas                                  LT           No                No
 Leatherback sea turtle             Dermochelys coriacea                            LE           No                No
 Olive ridley sea turtle            Lepidochelys olivacea                           LT           No                No
                                                                  Fish
 Oregon chub                        Oregonichtys crameri                            LT           CH             Potential
 Bull trout                         Salvelinus confuentus                           LT           CH               No
                                                                Invertebrates
 )HQGHU·VEOXHEXWWHUIO\              Icaricia icarioides fenderi                     LE           CH                Yes
 Oregon silverspot butterfly        Speyeria zerene hippolyta                       LT           CH                No
                                                                    Plants
 Willamette daisy                   Erigeron decumbens var. decumbens               LE           CH                Yes
 %UDGVKDZ·VGHVHUWSDUVOH\            Lomatium bradshawii                             LE           No                Yes
 .LQFDLG·VOXSLQH                    Lupinus sulphureus ssp. kincaidii               LT           CH                Yes
Source: OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan Biological Resources Technical Report. Environmental Science & Assessment. August 2011.
LT = Listed Threatened; LE = Listed Endangered; CH = Critical Habitat has been designated

Several of the federally listed species potentially occurring in Lane County clearly do not inhabit the
proposed project area due to lack of suitable habitat. Sea turtles, short-tailed albatross, and the
Oregon silverspot butterfly inhabit coastal areas. Marbled murrelet and northern spotted owl require
old growth forest habitat. Based on USFWS and StreamNet data, the nearest bull trout habitat is
located in the McKenzie River and Middle Fork Willamette River (70 FR 56212; StreamNet, 2011).
Based on the Oregon Chub Investigations 2010 Annual Progress Report, the nearest locations
inhabited by Oregon chub are located near the confluence of the McKenzie and Willamette Rivers
(ODFW, 2010). However, habitat conditions may exist for Oregon chub within the project area,
therefore confirmation with ODFW regarding Oregon chub presence (or lack of presence) will need
to occur.




       36    Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




The federally listed coastal population of western snowy plover is documented as occurring at Fern
Ridge Wildlife Area during April and May and August through October (ODFW, 2009). However,
there are no inland nesting sites for the coastal population in Oregon (UFSWS, 2007).

All of the remaining federally listed species are all documented as occurring in the project vicinity
(ODFW, 2009). 7KHVHLQFOXGH)HQGHU·VEOXHEXWWHUIO\:LOODPHWWHGDLV\%UDGVKDZ·VGHVHUt parsley,
DQG.LQFDLG·VOXSLQH

There are no species proposed for listing in Lane County. Candidate species include North
American wolverine (Gulo gulo luscus) and streaked horned lark (Eremophila alpestris strigata). The
proposed project is not located within North American wolverine habitat. The proposed project is
located within the species range for streaked horned lark, which has been documented at Fern Ridge
Wildlife Area (ODFW, 2009).

In addition to federally listed and candidate species, the USFWS species list for Lane County
includes numerous species of concern, several of which could potentially occur within the proposed
project area.

National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) Species Data (70 FR 52630)
Federally listed anadromous fish species under the jurisdiction of the National Marine Fisheries
Service (NMFS) that could potentially occur in the Willamette Valley include Upper Willamette
Distinct Population Segment (DPS) steelhead and Upper Willamette Evolutionarily Significant Unit
(ESU) Chinook salmon. Based on NMFS mapping, Upper Willamette DPS steelhead does not
extend south of the Calapooia River basin. Also based on NMFS mapping, the proposed project
area is located within the Upper Willamette River ESU Chinook salmon. However, Chinook salmon
are not documented as occurring within the project area. Based on StreamNet data (StreamNet,
2011) and NMFS data (70 FR 52630), the nearest occurrence of Chinook salmon to the project area
is within the Willamette River.

Fern Ridge Operational Management Plan Section 2.9 ² Shoreline Management (USACE, 1997)
The Shoreline Management Plan notes that the shoreline-related transition from upland forest to
open lowland prairie to marshland and open water provides valuable wildlife habitat along
undeveloped portions of the Fern Ridge Lake shoreline. The shoreline has been divided into
categories standardized by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) nationwide. These include
Limited Development, Public Recreation, Protected Shoreline, and Prohibited Access. The plan also
establishes a permit procedure for shoreline use, including vegetation modification.




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   37
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




State
Oregon Biodiversity Information Center (ORBIC) Data
ES&A submitted a request to the Oregon Biodiversity Information Center (ORBIC) for data
pertaining to documented occurrences of rare, threatened, and endangered species within a two-mile
radius of the proposed project area. The data has not yet been received.

The ORBIC data will include documented occurrences of both federal and state listed species within
the project area, which will need to be addressed.

Draft Fern Ridge Wildlife Area Management Plan (ODFW, 2009)
The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW) Draft Fern Ridge Wildlife Area
Management Plan is a ten-year plan to guide management of the Fern Ridge Wildlife Area. It
includes broad goals and specific objectives and management strategies.

The document notes that the following federally listed species occur at the wildlife area: Western
VQRZ\SORYHU)HQGHU·VEOXHEXWWHUIO\:LOODPHWWHGDLV\%UDGVKDZ·VGHVHUWSDUVOH\DQG.LQFDLG·V
lupine. Streaked-horned lark, which is a candidate for federal and state listing, is documented as
occurring at the wildlife area. The management plan also notes that white topped aster (Sericocarpus
rigidus), which is state listed as a threatened species, occurs at the wildlife area. It also notes
numerous federal species of concern and state sensitive species.

In addition to extensive information pertaining to biological resources, the plan also notes that
access to the Fern Ridge Wildlife Area is provided by OR 126W and secondary county roads
included in the current range of alternatives for the proposed project.

Long Tom Subbasin Fish Management Plan (ODFW, 1992)
The Long Tom Subbasin Fish Management Plan provides policies and objectives for the
management of fishery resources within the subbasin. It provides data pertaining to habitat, water
quality, and fish presence.

The plan notes that no fish passage facilities were provided when the Fern Ridge Dam was
constructed in 1941 because anadromous salmonids were considered absent; however, it also notes
that cutthroat trout migration was blocked by construction of the dam.

The identified highest priorities of the plan are:
   ´3URWHFWILVKSRSXOations from impacts caused by land use activities.
   Protect and enhance the productivity of wild cutthroat trout.
   Provide additional angling opportunities for warm water game fish while protecting native
   species.


     38   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


   Maintain public access and provide additionaOVLWHVµ

Regional and Local
Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan (Lane County, 2009)
ES&A reviewed applicable sections of the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan (Lane County,
2009). The Flora and Fauna section of Goal 5 are of particular relevance to Biological Resources.
That section addresses wildlife habitat including sensitive fish and waterfowl areas. It recognizes
federal and state programs for protecting threatened and endangered species and categorizes rare
plants as significant resources.

Lane County Code Chapter 16 (2010) and Chapter 12 (Comprehensive Plan) (2002)
ES&A reviewed Chapters 16 and 12 of the Lane County Code pertaining to Zoning and the
Comprehensive Plan. The zoning information in Chapter 10 may be relevant to Biological
Resources, particularly within the Natural Resource District areas that are mapped within the project
corridor. Certain transportation related activities such as operations, maintenance, and repair are
permitted uses within the Natural Resource District. Chapter 12 provides details on how the County
will implement the Comprehensive Plan and how amendments may be adopted.

City of Veneta Comprehensive Plan (2009) and Land Development Ordinance 493 (2010)
The proposed project corridor extends a short distance into the Urban Growth Boundary and City
Limits of the City of Veneta. The Comprehensive Plan Map identifies an Open Space ² Greenway
Overlay in that area that may be applicable to the proposed project as it pertains to Biological
Resources.
Eugene-Springfield Metropolitan Area General Plan 2004 Update (Metro Plan 2004)
The proposed project corridor extends a short distance into the Metro Plan boundary. The Metro
Plan map identifies areas of encroachment as Agricultural, Forest Land and Rural Residential areas
that may be applicable to the proposed project as it pertains to Biological Resources.

6.4.3. Findings
This Biological Resources review identified useful sources of existing information pertaining to
known Biological Resources that need to be addressed as the proposed project moves forward. Field
surveys and required documentation will be necessary for the project to comply with the federal
Endangered Species Act and the Oregon Endangered Species Act. Potential impacts to other
sensitive species and habitats may also need to be addressed in order to comply with state and local
requirements.

Biological Resources of particular significance to the proposed project include the documented
occurrence of state and federally listed species near the project corridor. These LQFOXGH)HQGHU·VEOXH
EXWWHUIO\:LOODPHWWHGDLV\%UDGVKDZ·VGHVHUWSDUVOH\DQG.LQFDLG·VOXSLQH




                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   39
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Recommendations for Phase 1 of the project include reconnaissance-level field studies of habitat
conditions along the proposed alignment alternatives. In addition to general habitat conditions, this
effort will include an assessment of potential habitats for state and federally listed species. Based on
the results of the potential habitat assessment, it is likely that rare plant surveys will be required for
subsequent phases of the project. Because rare plant surveys need to be conducted during specific
seasonal periods, planning ahead for these surveys would be prudent.

Coordination with agency personnel is recommended during Phase 1 to further identify potential
issues that may or may not need to be addressed. This includes obtaining official confirmation of the
lack of presence of certain state and federally listed species. Recommended agency coordination
includes USFWS, NMFS, and ODFW. If the project potentially results in modifications to the Fern
Ridge Lake shoreline, coordination with USACE may also be necessary.

Existing OR 126W Alignment
Fern Ridge Lake habitats include open water, seasonal mudflats, emergent wetland, shrub-scrub
wetland, and forested wetland. Wetland and upland prairie habitat is present with pockets of scrub-
shrub wetland and upland shrub habitat east of the Lake. Mixed riparian habitat is located along the
waterways flowing into Fern Ridge Lake. Oak woodlands and mixed oak/fir woodland is present on
the eastern end of this alignment south of Oak Hill and just east of Veneta. Portions of the
alignment pass through the ODFW Fern Ridge Wildlife Area (South Marsh Unit, Fisher Butte Unit,
West Coyote Unit, and East Coyote Unit). The eastern end of this alignment is primarily mixed
woodland surrounded by cultivated agricultural fields and pasture on residential properties.
Designated critical habitat for Willamette daisy is located immediately adjacent to OR 126W (Figure
6.2).

Southern Route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads
Existing habitats along this alignment include emergent, shrub-scrub, and forested wetlands.
Wetland prairie habitat is present in the extreme eastern end of this alignment just south of OR
126W. Upland prairie and potential wetland prairie is present along Cantrell Road east of Coyote
Creek. Extensive riparian and forested wetland habitats are present east and west of Coyote Creek in
the East Coyote Unit and West Coyote Unit of the ODFW Fern Ridge Wildlife Area. Oak
woodlands and mixed oak/fir woodland are present on the eastern end of this alignment south of
OR 126W. The western end of this alignment is primarily mixed woodland surrounded by cultivated
agricultural fields and pasture on residential properties. Designated critical habitat for Willamette
daisy is located immediately adjacent to the eastern end of the alignment at the OR 126W/Greenhill
² Crow Rd. intersection (Figure 6.2).




      40   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                      OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Figure 6.2. Designated Critical Habitat




                                          February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   41
  OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Federal and State Listed Species
Table 6.4 includes federal and state listed species identified by the Oregon Biodiversity Information
Center (ORBIC) as occurring within the proposed project area. ORBIC data was reviewed
pertaining to documented occurrences of rare, threatened, and endangered species within a two-mile
radius of the proposed project area.

Table 6.4. Federally and State Listed Species Documented in Project Area
                                                                                         Federal
              Common Name                                  Scientific Name                               State Status
                                                                                          Status
                                                          Birds
Bald Eagle                                       Haliaeetus leucocephalus                Delisted             LT
                                                                                          2007
                                                     Invertebrates
)HQGHU·VEOXHEXWWHUIO\                            Icaricia icarioides fenderi             LE, CH               NA
                                                          Plants
Willamette daisy                                 Erigeron decumbens var. decumbens        LE, CH               LE
%UDGVKDZ·VGHVHUWSDUVOH\                          Lomatium bradshawii                         LE                LE
.LQFDLG·VOXSLQH                                  Lupinus sulphureus ssp. kincaidii        LT, CH               LT
Wayside aster                                    Eucephalus vialis                          SOC                LT
White topped aster                               Sericocarpus rigidus                       SOC                LT
Source: OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan Biological Resources Technical Report. Environmental Science & Assessment. August 2011.
LT = Listed Threatened; LE = Listed Endangered; SOC = Species of Concern; CH = Critical Habitat has been
designated; NA = Not Applicable

There are no species proposed for federal listing in Lane County. Federal candidate species include
North American wolverine (Gulo gulo luscus) and streaked horned lark (Eremophila alpestris strigata).
The proposed project is not located within North American wolverine habitat. The proposed project
is located within the species range for horned lark and streaked horned lark may be present at Fern
Ridge Wildlife Area according to ODFW (ODFW, 2009).

Species documented in the project corridor that are candidates for state listing include shaggy
horkelia (Horkelia congesta ssp. congesta), tall bugbane (Cimicifuga elata var. elata), and Willamette Valley
larkspur (Delphinium oreganum). Other state sensitive species and federal species of concern are
documented in the area.

Birds
Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) ² The best available scientific and commercial data indicates that
the bald eagle recovered in the lower 48 States of the United States. The bald eagle was removed
(delisted from the federal list of endangered and threatened wildlife, which took effect on August 8,
2007 (72 Federal Register (FR) 37346). The protections provided to the bald eagle under the Bald
and Golden Eagle Protection Act (BGEPA) and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA) will
continue to remain in place (72 FR 37346).


       42    Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Bald eagles have been documented at nesting sites near Fern Ridge Lake since 1987. The last
documented occurrence was a nest near Fern Ridge Lake north of the project area. The nest site was
abandoned in 2006 (Isaacs and Anthony, 2007). Wintering bald eagle forage within the Willamette
River basin and would likely use the habitat surrounding Fern Ridge Lake for foraging and
migrating. Potential bald eagle perch and roost trees are located along the lake north of the project
area.

Streaked Horned Lark (Eremophila alpestris strigata) ² The streaked horned lark is a ground-dwelling,
sparrow-sized bird, which breeds west of the Cascade Range from southwest British Columbia to
southwest Oregon. It winters in the breeding range and south to northern California.

The habitat of this species consists of open fields, particularly those having bare ground or sparse
vegetation. The nest cavity is dug in dry ground in sparse vegetation (Marshall et al., 1996). ODFW
has prepared the Oregon Conservation Strategy which articulates goals and identifies actions that
FRQVHUYHDQGUHVWRUH2UHJRQ·VVSHFLHVKDELWDWVDQGHFRV\VWHPV2DFW, 2006). The limiting factors
for this species include loss and degradation of grassland habitat and nesting failure due to timing of
land management practices (i.e., mowing, haying, spraying)(ODFW, 2006).

According to ORBIC, there are no known records of the species within two miles of the project site
(ORBIC, 2011). The known nesting and foraging habitat for this species is present in the project
vicinity, however most of the suitable habitat is managed (i.e., agricultural).

Invertebrates
)HQGHU·V%OXe Butterfly (Icaricia icarioides fenderi) ² )HQGHU·VEOXHEXWWHUIO\LVHQGHPLFWRWKHQDWLYH
upland prairies of the Willamette Valley in Oregon. A few small populations of the species can also
be found in southern Washington. Only one-tenth of one percent of the original habitat once
DYDLODEOHWRWKH)HQGHU·VEOXHEXWWHUIO\DQG.LQFDLG·VOXSLQHLupinus sulphureus var. kincaidii) (the
butterflies primary food source), or approximately 400 hectares of prairie, exists today. )HQGHU·VEOXH
butterflies live priPDULO\LQWKHXSODQGSUDLULHVRI2UHJRQ·V:LOODPHWWH9DOOH\ For general
LQIRUPDWLRQRQWKHKDELWDWUHTXLUHPHQWVDQGOLIHKLVWRU\RIWKH)HQGHU·VEOXHEXWWHUIO\VHHWKH)5
notice published on January 25, 2000 (65 FR 3875).

Critical habitat was designated IRU)HQGHU·VEOXHEXWWHUIO\RQ2FWREHU)5 The
SULPDU\FRQVWLWXHQWHOHPHQWVHVVHQWLDOIRUWKHFRQVHUYDWLRQRI)HQGHU·VEOXHEXWWHUIO\LQFOXGHKDYLQJ
enough high-quality habitat to maintain viable populations across the range of the species. This
would require habitat restoration to create new sites, expanding the size of existing sites, and
creating habitat networks that connect isolated populations (71 FR 63862). The criteria considered in
determining selection of specific areas as critical habitat can be found in the FR published on
October 31, 2006 (71 FR 63862). Critical habitat is designated within 2,500 feet of OR 126W.

Observed occurrences have been documented along OR 126W in the eastern portion of the project
area and east of Fern Ridge Lake. Several other sites have been documented near Veneta west of the


                        February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   43
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Lake (ORBIC, 2011). Based on the results of the potential habitat assessment, it is likely that surveys
for host plants will be required for subsequent phases of the project.

Plants
Willamette Daisy (Erigeron decumbens var. decumbens) - Willamette daisy is listed under both the
Endangered Species Act (ESA) (65 FR 3875) and Oregon Endangered Species Act (OESA)
(ORNHIC, 2007) as an endangered species. Critical habitat was designated October 31, 2006 (71 FR
63862).

Willamette daisy is endemic to the Willamette Valley, where it historically was likely widespread
(USFWS, 2008b). Willamette daisy occurs in native prairie grasslands (ORNHIC, 2009), typically on
alluvial soils such as Wapato, Bashaw, and Mcalpin Series (USFWS, 2008b). Habitat for the species
includes wet tufted hairgrass (Deschampsia cespitosa) bottomlands and more well-drained red fescue
grasslands (ORNHIC, 2009). Sites often occur on relatively undisturbed sites with a diversity of
native forb and grass species. A few populations exist on more degraded sites, but the populations at
disturbed sites are generally small. For additional information on the habitat requirements and life
history of the Willamette daisy, see the Federal Register notice published on January 25, 2000 (65 FR
3875).

Willamette daisy has been documented at several sites within the project area (ORBIC, 2011).
Designated critical habitat for the species is located immediately adjacent to OR 126W. Surveys for
Willamette daisy will be required for subsequent phases of the project.

%UDGVKDZ·V'HVHUW3arsley (Lomatium bradshawii) - %UDGVKDZ·VGHVHUWSDUVOH\ is listed under both the
ESA (53 FR 38448) and OESA (ORNHIC, 2007) as an endangered species. No critical habitat has
been designated for the species (USFWS, 2008a). %UDGVKDZ·VGHVHUWSDUVOH\LVHQGHPLFWRWKHQDWLYH
wet prairies of central and southern Willamette Valley of Oregon (USFWS, 1993). The species
occurs in two distinct habitats. The majority of populations occur on seasonally saturated or flooded
prairies with dense, heavy clay soils (USFWS, 1993). The tufted hairgrass wet meadow community is
the most common habitat for the species (USFWS, 1993). For additional information on the habitat
requirements and life history of the %UDGVKDZ·VGHVHUWSDUVOH\VHHWKH)HGHUDO5HJLVWHU notice
published on September 30, 1988 (53 FR 38448).

%UDGVKDZ·VGHVHUWSDUVOH\KDVEHHQGRFXPHQWHGDWVHYHUDOVLWHVZLWKLQWKHSURMHFWDUHD25%,&
2011). Surveys for the species will be required for subsequent phases of the project.

.LQFDLG·V/upine (Lupinus sulphureus ssp. kincaidii) - .LQFDLG·VOXSLQHLVIHGHUDOO\OLVWHGDVDWKUHDWHQHG
species (65 FR 3875) and is also listed by the State of Oregon as a threatened species (ORNHIC,
2007). Critical habitat was designated for the species on October 31, 2006 (71 FR 63862). .LQFDLG·V
lupine typically occurs in native upland prairie habitats with heavy soils (65 FR 3875). For additional



     44   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


information on the habitat requirements and life history of the .LQFDLG·VOXSLQHVHHWKH)HGHUDO
Register notice published on January 25, 2000 (65 FR 3875).

.LQFDLG·VOXSLQHKDVEHHQGRFXPHQWHGDWVHYHUDOVLWHVZLWKLQWKHSURMHFWDUHD25%,&
Designated critical habitat for the species is located within 2,500 feet of OR 126W. Surveys for
.LQFDLG·VOXSLQHZLOOEHUHTXLUHGIRUVXEVHTXHQWSKDVHVRIWKHSURMHFW

White-Topped Aster (Sericocarpus rigidus) - White-topped aster is a federal species of concern and is
listed by the State of Oregon as threatened (ORNHIC, 2007). White-topped aster occupies low
elevation moist native prairies and well-drained soils in oak savanna habitats (Oregon Flora Project,
2010). It occurs on glacial outwash soils and shallow bedrock habitats, but at the southern portion of
its range, where the project site is located, it occurs on clayey soils (NatureServe, 2008).

White-topped aster has been documented at several sites within the project area (ORBIC, 2011).
Surveys for the species will be required for subsequent phases of the project.

Wayside Aster (Eucephalus vialis) - Wayside aster is a federal species of concern and is listed by the
State of Oregon as threatened (ORNHIC, 2007). Wayside aster occupies woodland and forest
openings and edges, which can be either natural or man-made (ORNHIC, 2009). It can also occur
along shaded roadsides (ORNHIC, 2009). It generally occurs between 250 and 2200 feet in
elevation, but occurs up to 3700 feet in southern Oregon (Oregon Flora Project, 2010).

Wayside aster has been documented at several sites within the project area (ORBIC, 2011). Surveys
for the species will be required for subsequent phases of the project.

Fish
There are no state or federally listed fish species within the project corridor. Fern Ridge Lake
supports native fish species including cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchyus clarki), largescale sucker
(Castostomus macrosheilus), sculpin (Cottus spp.), northern pikeminnow (Ptychocheilus oregonensis), and
redside shiner (Richardsonius baltaetus). Coyote Creek likely supports the same native fish species. Fern
Ridge Lake also supports several species of non-native warm water fish, many of which also likely
inhabit portions of Coyote Creek.

6.4.4. Conclusions
This Biological Resources review identified useful sources of existing information pertaining to
known Biological Resources that need to be addressed as the proposed project moves forward. Field
surveys and required documentation will be necessary for the project to comply with the federal
Endangered Species Act and the Oregon Endangered Species Act. Potential impacts to other
sensitive species and habitats may also need to be addressed in order to comply with state and local
requirements.



                         February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   45
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Biological Resources of particular significance to the proposed project include the documented
occurrence of state and federally listed species near the project corridor. 7KHVHLQFOXGH)HQGHU·VEOXH
EXWWHUIO\:LOODPHWWHGDLV\%UDGVKDZ·VGHVHUWSDUVOH\.LQFDLG·VOXSLQH, White-topped aster and
Wayside aster.

Recommendations for Phase 1 of the project include reconnaissance-level field studies of habitat
conditions along the proposed alignment alternatives. In addition to general habitat conditions, this
effort will include an assessment of potential habitats for state and federally listed species. Based on
the results of the potential habitat assessment, it is likely that rare plant surveys will be required for
subsequent phases of the project. Because rare plant surveys need to be conducted during specific
seasonal periods, planning ahead for these surveys would be prudent.

Coordination with agency personnel is recommended during Phase 1 to further identify potential
issues that may or may not need to be addressed. This includes obtaining official confirmation of the
lack of presence of certain state and federally listed species. Recommended agency coordination
includes USFWS, NMFS, and ODFW. If the project potentially results in modifications to the Fern
Ridge Lake shoreline, coordination with USACE may also be necessary.

6.5. Energy

This section considers energy analysis and how it relates to the project.

6.5.1. Data Sources and Collection
Regulations and plans pertaining to energy use were reviewed online at the federal, state, and local
level.

6.5.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

Federal
Title 42 of the United States Code (USC). 42 USC 6201, 13401, and 13431
Title 42 of the USC focuses on energy conservation, reduced reliance on foreign energy sources
(mainly petroleum), use of alternative fuels, and increased efficiency in energy use. Policies related to
energy include:
    Providing for improved energy efficiency in motor vehicles (42 USC 6201).
    Increasing economic efficiency by meeting future needs for energy services at the lowest cost
    considering technologies that improve the efficiency of energy end use, while conserving energy
    supplies such as oil (42 USC 13401).


      46   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


   Reducing air, water, and other environmental impacts (including emissions of greenhouse gases)
   related to energy production, distribution, transportation, and use by development of an
   environmentally sustainable energy system (42 USC 13401).
   Reducing demand for oil in the transportation sector for all motor vehicles (42 USC 13431).

Energy Policy Act of 2005. Public Law (PL) 109-58. August 8, 2005
The Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended and now supersedes several previous energy policy acts,
including the National Energy Act of 1978 (PL 95-619), the Energy Policy and Conservation Act
Amendments of 1985 (PL 99-58), and the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (PL 102-486). The Energy
Policy Act of 2005 includes transportation-related provisions which:
    Reduce reliance on foreign energy sources (mainly petroleum).
    Increase efficiency in motor vehicles.
    Increase use of recovered mineral content in federally funded projects involving procurement of
    cement or concrete.

State
State of Oregon Energy Plan 2005-2007. 2005
The Oregon Energy Plan includes an energy action plan with recommendations and goals to help
ensure that Oregon has an adequate supply of affordable and reliable energy. Goals related to
transportation energy include the following:
    Reduce single-occupancy vehicle commuting.
    ,PSOHPHQW2UHJRQ·V5HQHZDEOH(QHUJ\$FWLRQ3ODQWKLVSODQLQFOXGHVORQJ- and short-term
    goals for electricity generation and transportation fuels).
    Implement strategy for reducing greenhouse gases (this includes emissions from transportation
    sources).

Oregon Transportation Plan 2006
7KH2UHJRQ7UDQVSRUWDWLRQ3ODQ273LVWKHVWDWH·VORQJUDQJHPXOWLPRGDOWUDQVSRUWDWLRQSODQDQG
overarching policy document for the statewide transportation system. Goal 4 in the OTP is
dedicated to sustainability³the concept that future generations should equitably enjoy the same or
better quality of life common to Oregonians today.

Policy 4.1 directs the state to provide an environmentally responsible transportation system that
encourages conservation and protection of natural resources. To achieve this policy, strategies are
listed such as stewardship of natural resources and use of renewable materials in construction. Policy
4.2 is directed at energy supply. This policy supports efforts to create a diversified, cleaner energy
supply and encourages development of alternative fuel vehicles.




                        February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   47
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



Oregon Statewide Planning Goals. Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR) Division 660
Oregon has developed and maintained a statewide program of land use planning since the early
1970s. The core of this program consists of 19 statewide planning goals. Two of these goals, 12 and
13, relate to energy.

Goal 12: Transportation, is to provide and encourage a safe, convenient, and economic
transportation system. It states that transportation plans must encourage the conservation of energy.
In addition, transportation systems shall, to the fullest extent possible, be planned to utilize existing
facilities and rights-of-way within the state, provided that such use is not inconsistent with the
environmental, energy, land use, economic, or social policies of the state.

Goal 13: Energy Conservation, states that land and uses developed on the land shall be managed and
controlled so as to maximize the conservation of all forms of energy, based on sound economic
principles (OAR 660-015-0000 (13)).

Regional and Local
Lane County Comprehensive Plan
The general purpose of the comprehensive plan is to guide the social, economic, and physical
development of the County to best promote public health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity,
and general welfare.

Under Goal 12: Transportation, the comprehensive plan has energy-related policies including
consideration of impacts to energy resources from proposed transportation projects. Transportation
Policy 1g encourages energy-efficient modes of transportation. Goal 13 in the plan addresses Energy
Conservation. In support of this goal, Policy 2 encourages energy conservation in the development
and use of public facilities.

Central Lane MPO Regional Transportation Plan
The Central Lane Metropolitan Planning Organization (CLMPO) Regional Transportation Plan
(RTP) guides regional transportation system planning and development in the CLMPO metropolitan
area. The RTP includes provisions for meeting the transportation demand of residents over a 20-
year planning horizon while addressing transportation issues and making changes that can contribute
WRLPSURYHPHQWVLQWKHUHJLRQ·VTXDOLW\RIOLIHDQGHFRQRPLFYLWDOLW\7KH032ERXQGDU\Hxtends
beyond Eugene and Springfield to include Coburg. Its western boundary is located a short distance
west of Green Hill Road, extending into the eastern portion of the Corridor Plan study area.

The RTP strives to provide a transportation system that is environmentally responsible. This is
defined as a transportation system that reduces environmental impact and energy consumption.
Actions identified to reduce energy consumption include increased use of transit, telecommuting,
zero-emissions vehicles, ridesharing, bicycles and walking, and through increased efficiency in the


     48   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


existing transportation network to minimize delay.

6.5.3. Findings
At this time there are no findings for energy consumption. Energy use may be quantified in future
phases of the project as traffic projections are developed and the design of potential alternatives is
refined.

6.5.4. Conclusions
No local, state, or federal laws constrain energy use or regulate carbon output or sustainability
practices. As described above, some federal, state, and local policies generally address energy use and
sustainability, mainly in terms of conserving energy or providing means to improve the efficiency of
energy use in transportation.

Project alternatives that demonstrate energy conscious choices will comply with these general
policies. This may include alternatives that improve multi-modal connectivity and reduce energy
consumption related to delay while minimizing the construction footprint to conserve the use of
materials. Energy conservation goals related to encouragement of alternative fuel vehicles are
generally outside the purview of the Corridor Plan.

6.6. Geology / Geotechnical

This section addresses geology and seismic activity in the study corridor.

6.6.1. Data Sources and Collection
Relevant federal, state, and local documents were reviewed and the Web Soil Survey was consulted
through the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) website.

6.6.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan. Two geotechnical studies have been conducted in the project area. One related to slide repair
at the OR 126W crossing of Coyote Creek and an earlier report prepared for the Coyote Creek
Bridge.

Federal
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials Load and Resistance Factor
Design Bridge Design Specifications (4th edition, 2007)
These specifications are intended for the design, evaluation, and rehabilitation of both fixed and
movable highway bridges. If structures are constructed as part of the project alternatives, this
publication will provide guidance for seismic standards.


                         February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   49
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


State
ODOT 2004 Bridge Design and Drafting Manual (revised April 2010)
The purpose of the manual is to provide guidance in design criteria, analysis methods and detailing
practices for the preparation of plans, specifications, and cost estimates for bridges and other
structures. It provides seismic guidance if bridge structures are included in the Corridor Plan.

Foundation Report. Middle Fork Coyote Creek Bridge, Florence-Eugene Highway (May 1983)
Information contained in this report was for structural design of the Coyote Creek Bridge. Test
holes were drilled at the site to analyze soil composition.

Engineering Geology Report. OR126 Coyote Creek Slide Repair (December 2008)
Included in the report is a background of the project, description of the site conditions, and
conclusions from a subsurface investigation. Additional detailed information, such as drill hole logs,
was provided in the appendix.

Oregon Transportation Plan 2006
7KH2UHJRQ7UDQVSRUWDWLRQ3ODQ273LVWKHVWDWH·VORQJUDQJHPXOWLPRGDOWUDQVSRUWDWLRQSODQDQG
overarching policy document for the statewide transportation system. Goal 4 in the OTP is
dedicated to sustainability, and to pursue this goal, Action 4.1.3 stresses that the state must evaluate
geological hazards when considering the location and design of transportation facilities.

Regional and Local
Lane County Comprehensive Plan
The general purpose of the comprehensive plan is the guiding of the social, economic, and physical
development of the County to best promote public health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity,
and general welfare.

Goal 7 in the comprehensive plan considers area subject to natural hazards. This primarily applies to
new development and mitigation of hazards associated with flooding, landslides, and erosion, but
the same can apply to new or modified transportation facilities.

6.6.3. Findings
The highway section is within the Willamette Valley physiographic province of Oregon, which is
enclosed by the Coast Range to the west, the Cascade Mountains to the east, and the Columbia
River to the north (Orr and Orr, 2000). According to the geologic maps reviewed, the site sits on
recent fill, and Quaternary aged (1.8 million years to present) fine grained alluvium. The highway
embankment fill is derived from local Quaternary aged fine grained alluvial deposits.

In a subsurface exploration at the Coyote Creek Bridge (OR 126W), two holes were drilled in
1RYHPEHU7KHLQYHVWLJDWLRQUHSRUWHG´Fill was encountered below the roadway material in
both drill holes to a depth between 11 and 14 feet. The fill consists of high plasticity clay with


     50   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


rootlets. Alluvium was encountered in both borings below the fill. The alluvium consists of medium
to high plasticity silty clay and clayey silt, medium plasticity clayey sand, and non-plastic silty sand
with some gravelµ2'272008)

There are no known geological hazards in the project study area identified in local plans. The project
area is generally flat along OR 126W and likely void of conditions that would lead to unstable
soils/landslides. Steeper slopes (greater than 10%) are found on the eastern portion of the parallel
facility route (on Cantrell Road). Soils in the project area are mapped by the Natural Resource
Conservation Service as mostly silty clay loams and silty loam. Generally, these soils are mapped as
slightly to highly plastic with very high fines contents. Such soils are somewhat susceptible to
erosion. Stream bank materials along Coyote Creek have been highly erodible, probably due to wave
action caused by boats and wind. Because of their plasticity, they typically function poorly as
structural fill or trench backfill in areas where post-construction trench backfill settlements may be
of concern. This would include road subgrade areas or areas that will need to function as bearing
strata such as foundation areas for retaining walls, bridges, buildings, etc.

The regional sources of seismicity affecting the Eugene, Oregon area, and hence the potential for
ground shaking, are principally controlled by two separate mechanisms. These are large subduction
zone interface earthquakes (moment magnitude [Mw] 8 to 9) and relatively shallow crustal zone
earthquakes (Mw 5.0 to 7.0). Deeper subduction zone intraplate events occur in the Pacific
Northwest but have not been documented in Oregon, and their contribution to the overall hazard is
likely small.

6.6.4. Conclusions
If project alternatives would be constructed on or would result in grades of greater than 10 percent,
then additional analysis must be prepared to assess whether the project would be at risk from
and/or create a geologic hazard. This would be evaluated by a geotechnical specialist as the project
advances through the future NEPA stage, assuming modernization alternatives are advanced for
further consideration. The type of project and geological conditions will drive the complexity and
detail needed for the geotechnical report.

Development of structures will need to comply with applicable seismic standards. State design codes
for highways and related facilities will apply to the construction of OR 126W improvements,
including addressing geologic hazards that could result from or affect the project facilities. All
applicable standards must be met in order to receive ODOT construction permits.

6.7. Hazardous Materials

This section addresses hazardous material sites within the project study area. A hazardous material
site is a location or facility which has reportedly contained a hazardous substance or has released a
hazardous substance into the environment.

                         February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   51
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




6.7.1. Data Sources and Collection
For this assessment, the Oregon DEQ Environmental Cleanup Site Information (ECSI) database
was consulted to locate any known or potential sites contaminated with hazardous substances.

6.7.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

Federal
The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA)
The RCRA was established for the regulation of hazardous waste and related activities that include
hazardous waste generators, transporters, and storage and disposal facilities. The RCRA was
designed to regulate materials that can be defined as both a solid and a hazardous waste and is
related to activities that are currently taking place.

The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980
(CERCLA)
This act was established to identify and provide for the cleanup of sites contaminated with
hazardous substances from past uncontrolled releases into the environment. It also provides for
emergency response actions and gives the federal government the authority to assign responsibilities
for contamination and subsequent cleanup via a superfund liability.

State
Oregon Revised Statutes Chapters 465 and 466
In the interest of public health and safety, the state legislature enacted ORS to protect Oregon
citizens from the potential harmful effects of the transportation and treatment or disposal of
hazardous waste. The Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) is charged with
administration, enforcement, and implementation of the laws.

Regional and Local
Local provisions regarding on-site hazardous materials were not found.

6.7.3. Findings
Through a search of the DEQ ECSI database, seven potentially contaminated sites were found in
the general project area. This includes three Leaking Underground Storage Tank (LUST) sites, three
sites with suspected soil contamination, and one site with potential groundwater contamination at
the Lane Substation (owned by Bonneville Power Administration). The location of these properties
is shown on Figure 6.3.


     52   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                                 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Figure 6.3. Potential Hazardous Material Sites




                                                 February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   53
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




6.7.4. Conclusions
The significance of potential hazardous materials impacts will need to be analyzed in terms of the
SURMHFW·VDIIHFWRQ the public or the environment through the routine transport, use or disposal of
such materials, and the extent to which project alternatives may disturb hazardous material sites.

Project alternatives, if constructed, may require earthwork and excavation adjacent to existing
transportation facilities. Three of the hazardous material sites (one soil contamination and two
LUST sites) are located on properties adjacent to OR 126W; the remaining four are located away
from the highway corridor. A Hazardous Materials Report is anticipated for the future NEPA
documentation phase to further investigate potential project effects. Alternatives with the largest
construction footprint would have a greater potential to disturb hazardous material sites.

6.8. Historic Resources

The historic resources screening considers the potential effects of the conceptual alternatives on
potential above ground historic resources.

6.8.1. Data Sources and Collection
This section describes data sources and the methods used to collect and evaluate data to determine
archaeological considerations for the project.

Area of Potential Effect
The area of potential effect (APE) for historical resources includes locations that will be directly
impacted by the project such as removal of structures or impacts to tax lots, as well as resources that
may be affected by indirect impacts such as visual or noise effects. The proposed APE requires
review and approval by the Oregon SHPO. SHPO will review the APE once the extent of direct
landscape alterations and the indirect impacts to traffic patterns of the project are known. Further,
WKH$3(PD\EHPRGLILHGDVDUHVXOWRIWKHSURMHFW·VDQDO\VLVRISRWHQWLDOLPSDFWV

Data Sources
Documentary research was conducted using primary and secondary source materials on file at
Oregon SHPO (to identify properties designated as National Register listed or eligible, or Statewide
Planning Goal 5-protected historic resources), Lane County, and other appropriate archives, and
included the following sources:
    Oregon SHPO National Register and State Inventory files
    Lane County Inventory and Goal 5 Historic Resources
    Tax records from Lane County
    Sanborn Fire Insurance maps and other historical maps




     54   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Records Review
Heritage conducted a review of historic maps and records to identify previously documented historic
resources in the Project Survey Area was. This review included a search of the Oregon SHPO
database, the City of Eugene, Lane County, and the National Register database for listed properties.
Historic maps were also consulted: General Land Office (GLO) for 1853-1854 (Figure 6.4), GLO
for 1857-1860, USGS 1910-1922 (Figure 6.5), and USGS Eugene 1946 and Elmira 1957 quadrangles
(Figure 6.6).

Figure 6.4. 1853-54 General Land Office Survey plat showing the boundaries of the Project Study Area
and current roadways.




                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   55
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Figure 6.5. USGS Elmira DQG(XJHQH·TXDGUDQJOHVVKRZLQJWKHERXQGDULHVRIWKH3roject Study Area
(1910, 1922).




Figure 6.6. Boundaries of the Project Study Area on the USGS Elmira-(XJHQH·quadrangles (1957,
1946).




     56   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


6.8.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

The purpose of the historic resource evaluation is to ensure that the proposed project complies with
laws, regulations, and policies set forth at the federal, state, and local levels. The extent to which
these historic resource laws and regulations might apply to this project will depend upon the
resources encountered within the project area. The analysis will comply with the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA),
applicable state environmental policy legislation, and local and state planning policies. The following
federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations addressing historic and cultural resources
may apply to the Corridor Plan.

Federal
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C. 4321-4347.
The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires that federal agencies consider
environmental impacts before taking actions that could significantly affect the human environment.
As interpreted by the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), NEPA requires that "reasonably
foreseeable" direct, indirect, and cumulative effects of a proposed action be considered in the
decision making process. The term "effects" includes "aesthetic, historic, cultural, economic, social,
or health" effects.

National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 16 U.S.C. 470.
(http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/html/uscode16/usc_sec_16_00000470----000-.html).
This act is the primary authority used in complying with the nation's cultural resources protection
objectives.

Antiquities Act of 1906, 16 U.S.C. 431-433, (http://www.cr.nps.gov/local-law/anti1906.htm).
This act protects historic, prehistoric ruins, monuments, or objects of antiquity located on lands
owned or controlled by the U.S. Government.

Historic Sites Act of 1935, 16 U.S.C. 461-467 (http://www.cr.nps.gov/local-
law/FHPL_HistSites.pdf).
This act is a basic authority for the Secretary of the Interior to adopt rules and regulations
concerning historic properties.




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   57
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



Section 4(f), Department of Transportation Act of 1966, 49 U.S.C. 303, 23 U.S.C. 138
(http://www.environment.fhwa.dot.gov/projdev/pd5sec4f.asp).
This act requires that there be no constructive use for a highway project of historic sites, in addition
to publicly owned parks, recreation areas, and wildlife and waterfowl refuges, unless there is no
prudent and feasible alternative to the use of such land.

Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974, 16 U.S.C. 469 (http://www.cr.nps.gov/local-
law/FHPL_ArchHistPres.pdf).
This statute requires that federal agencies preserve historical and archaeological data (including relics
and specimens) that might otherwise be irreparably lost or destroyed as the result of any alteration of
the terrain resulting from any federal construction project or federally licensed activity or program.
The Act greatly expanded the number and range of federal agencies that must take archeological
resources into account when executing, funding, or licensing projects.

36 CFR Part 800, Protection of Historic Properties (http://www.achp.gov/regs-rev04.pdf).
This regulation sets forth the process by which federal agencies account for the effects of their
undertakings on historic properties eligible for the National Register of Historic Places. It outlines
the procedures for how federal agencies meet these statutory responsibilities.

36 CFR Part 63 (http://archnet.asu.edu/Topical/CRM/usdocs/36cfr63.html).
These regulations explain how federal agencies can identify and evaluate the eligibility of properties
for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places.

40 CFR 1508.27 (http://www.nepa.gov/nepa/regs/ceq/1508.htm#1508.27).
This regulation provides guidance on defining significance thresholds for various environmental
disciplines, specifically pertaining to project impacts.

Executive Order 11593
(http://www.gsa.gov/Portal/gsa/ep/contentView.do?contentType=GSA_BASIC&contentId=12094).
This order directs federal agencies to protect and enhance cultural sites, including those non-
federally owned, through inventory and evaluation.

State
ORS 358.653 (http://www.leg.state.or.us/ors/358.html).
This statute requires that any state agency or political subdivision responsible for real property of
historic significance must, in consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer, institute a
program to conserve the property and assure that such property will not be inadvertently
transferred, sold, demolished, substantially altered or allowed to deteriorate.




     58   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



Oregon Statewide Planning Goal 5 (OAR 660-023-0000) Natural Resources, Scenic and Historic
Areas, and Open Spaces (http://www.lcd.state.or.us/LCD/docs/goals/goal5.pdf).
Under Goal 5, local governments throughout Oregon have adopted programs that will protect
natural resources and conserve scenic, historic, and open spaces resources. Cultural areas, including
historic and archaeological resources, are among the resources recommended for inventory by local
governments and state agencies.

Local
Historic Structures of Sites Combine Zone (/H-RCP).
The Lane County Code 16.233, Historic Structures of Sites Combine Zone (/H-RCP), is an
ordinance providing for review of building permits or demolition permits for historic structures or
sites to ensure preservation. Permits are required for the alteration or demolition of a historic
structure or site. Only minimum alteration of historic structures or sites or their environment shall
be allowed in order to achieve the intended use, and the distinguishing original qualities or character
of a historic building, structure, or site and its environment should not be destroyed.

6.8.3. Findings
Review of the Oregon SHPO database and the National Register database for listed properties has
at present resulted in the identification of only one previously recorded historic resource in the APE.
The Southern Pacific Railroad Corridor, built circa 1913, is listed as an eligible contributing resource.
There are no properties listed on the National Register of Historic Places within the project area. A
review of an uncompleted survey and inventory for Lane County is still pending.

6.8.4. Conclusions
On the basis of historical map information (Figures 6.4 through 6.8), it is estimated that there are
approximately 120 historic resources in the project study area that are 45 years of age and older that
will require survey and inventory. Most of the resources do not appear to be eligible for the National
Register due to alterations to the resource and a lack of distinctive architectural features. However
there are a few remaining historic farm and agricultural building complexes that may be potentially
eligible.

Once a project alignment has been chosen, project design should seek to avoid or minimize
potential effects on eligible resources in accordance with federal and state law. If right-of-way is
purchased from any of these resources, further research and documentation will be required to
complete a definitive Determination of Eligibility. If the project APE encroaches on these historic
resource tax lots, project effects to these resources will be evaluated according to the criteria set
forth in the National Historic Preservation Act (36 CFR 800) and Section 4(f) of the Department of
Transportation Act.




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   59
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




For projects classified as a Class 1 (Environmental Impact Statement) or Class 3 (Environmental
Assessment) under NEPA, a Cultural Resources Technical Report will be required. This report is a
more in-depth analysis of cultural resources within a project area. The Technical Report contains a
summary of the development of the project areas, a summary of research on previously identified
resources in the project area, the results of the Section 106 consultation process, and a description of
GLIIHUHQWSURMHFWDOWHUQDWLYH·VHIIHFWVWRFXOWXUDOUHVRXUFHV The Technical Report must be prepared
according to the approved ODOT format. This Technical Report must be reviewed and approved
by ODOT. The Technical Report, along with the full NEPA document, may be transmitted to
SHPO and other interested parties.

Figure 6.7. Boundaries of the Western Portion of the Project Study Area 86*69HQHWD·TXDGUDQJOH
1975).




     60   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Figure 6.8. Boundaries of the Eastern Portion of the Project Study Area (USGS Veneta and Eugene West
·TXDGUDQJOHVDQG




6.9. Land Use and Prime Agricultural Lands

This section discusses land use conditions in the project study area and possible regulatory
requirements.

6.9.1. Data Sources and Collection
Lane Code was consulted to evaluate regulatory standards for transportation projects in the resource
zones. The Lane County zoning and comprehensive plan maps were reviewed to identify land use
classifications in the project corridor.

6.9.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   61
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Federal
United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) Fern Ridge Shoreline Management Plan (1988,
updated November 1997)
The Shoreline Management Plan provides a framework for managing shoreline resources at Fern
5LGJH/DNH,WVSULPDU\REMHFWLYHLVWR´DFKLHYHDEDODQFHEHWZHHQSXEOLFXVHHQMR\PHQWRISURMHFW
benefits and long-WHUPUHVRXUFHSURWHFWLRQµ7KHSODQZDVSUHSDUHGE\WKH$UP\&Rrps of
Engineers, which has management jurisdiction over the lake.

Facilities constructed within the purview of the Shoreline Management Plan require a shoreline use
permit. There is no mention of transportation facilities or acquisition of public right-of-way for
roads. The Plan primarily addresses provision of recreational facilities such as boat moorages and
duck blinds. Any encroachment on Fern Ridge Lake would require coordination with the USACE
and determination of processes that may apply to Shoreline Management Plan/land use changes.

State
Oregon Transportation Plan 2006
7KH2UHJRQ7UDQVSRUWDWLRQ3ODQ273LVWKHVWDWH·VORQJUDQJHPXOWLPRGDOWUDQVSRUWDWLRQSODQDQG
overarching policy document for the statewide transportation system. It includes several mentions of
land use in terms of integrating land use and transportation and supporting local land use planning.

Fern Ridge Wildlife Area Management Plan ² Final Draft (June 2009)
Fern Ridge Wildlife Area was created in 1957 under a license agreement between the Corps of
Engineers and Oregon Game Commission (now ODFW). The agreement provides authority for the
state to "develop, conserve, and manage all wildlife resources on a 5,010 acre portion of the 12,716
acres owned by the USACE around the reservoir. The Wildlife Area consists of nine distinct
management units; four units are adjacent to and extend across OR 126W. The ODFW conducts
wildlife management activities (water management, wildlife food crops) and maintains public
viewing locations in the area.

Oregon Statewide Planning Goals. Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR) Division 660
7KHIRXQGDWLRQRI2UHJRQ·VODQGXVHSODQQLQJSURJUDPLVDVHWRI6WDWHZLGH3ODQQLQJ*RDOV7KH
JRDOVH[SUHVVWKHVWDWH·VSROLFLHVRQODQGXVHDQGUHODWHGWRSLFVVXFh as citizen involvement, housing,
and natural resources and are achieved through local comprehensive planning. State law requires
each city and county to adopt a comprehensive plan and the zoning and land-division ordinances
needed to put the plan into effect. Of note for this assessment are Goal 2 Land Use Planning, Goal
3 Agricultural Lands, and Goal 5 Open Spaces.

The project area is mostly under Lane County jurisdiction between the cities of Eugene and Veneta,
and rural land use designations predominate. The areas adjacent to the east and west termini are
under the jurisdiction of Eugene and Veneta (respectively).

     62   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Regional and Local
Lane County Comprehensive Plan (2009)
The general purpose of the comprehensive plan is the guiding of the social, economic, and physical
development of the County to best promote public health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity,
and general welfare.

Comprehensive Plan designations in the OR 126W project corridor include Agricultural (Statewide
Planning Goal 3), Parks and Natural Resources (Statewide Goal 5), and Forest Lands (Statewide
Planning Goal 4). The goal is to preserve and maintain these resources.

Lane County Code Chapter 16
Chapter 16 contains the Lane County zoning code for the various rural zoning classifications. The
most common zoning in the project area is Exclusive Farm Use (E). Allowable transportation uses
in the E zone are defined in Lane Code 16.212 (3). Depending on which preferred alternative is
chosen, approval of a special use permit or exception to state land use law may be necessary. For
example, construction of additional passing and travel lanes requiring the acquisition of right-of-way
is not a permitted use in the E zone. Rather, it is considered a special use and subject to review and
approval by the Lane County Planning director (LC 16.212 (4)(o)(ii)). Construction of a new
separated bikeway may also require a special use permit. The same general rules apply to the other
potentially affected resource zones in the project corridor: Parks and Recreation (PR), Forest Land
(F-2), and Natural Resource (NR). To ensure compliance with state land use law and corresponding
Rural Comprehensive Plan and Lane Code requirements, Lane County planning must be consulted
to verify if proposed improvements are permitted or will require a more extensive land use process.

City of Veneta Comprehensive Plan (2000)
7KH9HQHWD&RPSUHKHQVLYH3ODQVHUYHVDV9HQHWD·VORQJ-range land use plan and as a policy guide to
physical development decisions. The Plan is designed to include a sufficient amount of land to
accommodate anticipated growth during the next twenty years, and addresses the major public
facilities needed to support the land uses designated within the urban growth boundary (UGB). OR
126W at Huston Road is within the Veneta UBG. There are no conflicts with the Veneta
Comprehensive Plan regarding construction of road improvements on OR 126W. If a new road
alignment is created entering Veneta, this will need to be evaluated in terms of potential impact to
land use.

Lane County Parks and Open Space Master Plan (1980)
The purpose of the plan is to identify deficiencies and plan for the parks and open space facility
needs of Lane County. This includes maintenance and expansion of existing facilities as well as new
facilities. Peninsula County Park abuts the north side of OR 126W at the intersection with Central
Road. There are no identified conflicts regarding expansion of public road facilities and policies in


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   63
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


the Master Plan. The Parks and Open Space Master Plan is in the process of being updated by Lane
County, but with no concrete completion date.

6.9.3. Findings
Rural resource zones are the predominate zoning classifications in the project corridor--Exclusive
Farm Use (EFU), Parks and Recreation (PR), Forest Land (F-2), and Natural Resource (NR). Lane
County has land use jurisdiction. There is also sparse residential development, a County park, and
the Fern Ridge Wildlife Area. Along the approach to Veneta, commercial uses are present on the
north side of OR 126W. A meat packing facility is located to the south of OR 126W off of Central
Road.

Project alternatives may include right-of-way expansion on to adjacent properties. Lane County
Code specifies permitted transportation uses by zoning classification. The applicable requirements
are discussed above under the Lane Code Chapter 16 heading. It is not anticipated that
transportation improvements would inhibit farm or forest practices consistent with the zoning
classifications in the project area. However, the project would need to demonstrate this through
submittal of a special use application for those alternatives that would add travel lanes or climbing
and passing lanes if additional road right-of-way is needed, or if the project would otherwise require
a special use permit. Lane County Planning must be consulted to make a specific determination.

6.9.4. Conclusions
The assessment of project alternatives is primarily related to direct impacts from property
acquisition, facility widening, and construction and the potential affect to resource land productivity.
Transportation alternatives must not force a significant change in or increase the cost of accepted
farm or forest practices on surrounding lands devoted to farm and forest use. This would run
counter to state land use law and Lane County Code requirements (LC 16.212 (10)(f) through (g)).
There is no concern that expansion of the existing OR 126W facility will trigger changes in or
intensification of land use³current County zoning regulations would preclude this. If considerable
changes to traffic flow were proposed on parallel facilities, potential conflicts with adjacent land uses
would need to be assessed.

Because possible project improvements would largely occur on County-controlled rural lands, it is
necessary WRFRQVXOWZLWKWKH&RXQW\·V/DQG0DQDJHPHQW'LYLVLRQWRGHWHUPLQHWKHDSSURSULDWH
land use actions and approvals that may be required. This will vary depending upon the
transportation alternative chosen, but acquisition of right-of-way and expansion of travel lanes is not
a permitted use in the rural resource zones. Such alternatives would be reviewed as a special use by
the County and in terms of compliance with state land use law and corresponding Rural
Comprehensive Plan and Lane Code requirements. It is also necessary to ensure that setback
requirements for buildings are still met with the introduction or expansion of transportation
facilities.


     64   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




In addition, further coordination will be needed with the USACE to ensure that any encroachment
on Fern Ridge Lake is consistent with their operational plan and any necessary permits are honored.
Coordination with Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife will be needed to discuss any expansion
of transportation facilities in the Fern Ridge Wildlife Area. The acquisition of wildlife refuge and
parklands (County-owned Perkins Peninsula Park abuts the north side of OR 126W) for
transportation use would be subject to the provisions of Section 4(f) of the Department of
Transportation Act of 1966 (see Section 6.12).

6.10. Noise

This section discusses potential noise study requirements.

6.10.1. Data Sources and Collection
Current aerial imagery was reviewed to locate the proximity of potential sensitive receptors (e.g.
residences) to the proposed transportation alternatives. FHWA requirements for a noise study were
also reviewed.

6.10.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

Federal
23 CFR Part 772. FHWA Procedures for Abatement of Highway Traffic Noise and Construction
Noise ² Final Rule
The FHWA developed this noise regulation as required by section 136 of the Federal-Aid Highway
Act of 1970 (codified at 23 U.S.C. 109(i)). The regulation applies to highway construction projects
where a State department of transportation has requested Federal funding for participation in the
project. The FHWA noise regulation, found at 23 CFR 772, requires a highway agency to investigate
traffic noise impacts in areas adjacent to federally funded highways for the proposed construction of
a highway on a new location or the reconstruction of an existing highway that either significantly
changes the horizontal or vertical alignment or increases the number of through-traffic lanes.

The noise standard in 23CFR 7722 has been revised and became effective on July 13, 2011. The new
standard defines which projects require a noise study. Noise studies are required whenever one or
more of the following conditions occur:



2
  http://edocket.access.gpo.gov/2010/pdf/2010-15848.pdf  


                         February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   65
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


    The construction will involve creation of an additional lane of through traffic. This also applies
    to the construction of a passing lane, high occupancy vehicle (HOV) lane, high-occupancy toll
    (HOT), bus lane, truck climbing lane and auxiliary lanes except turn lanes.
    The construction results in an acoustically significant increase in noise due to a shift in the
    horizontal or vertical alignment of the roadway.
    The construction will create a new roadway on a new alignment. This also applies to on or off
    ramps and completion of existing partial interchange.
    The construction will remove acoustic shielding (i.e. embankments, dense stands of trees and
    vegetation, buildings etc.) that currently significantly reduce noise to a receptor.
    Restriping existing pavement for the purpose of adding a through-traffic lane or an auxiliary
    lane.
    The construction of a new or substantial alteration of a weigh station, rest area, ride-share lot or
    toll plaza.

If none of the above occur a traffic noise study is not required. If any of the above occur a noise
study is required.

State
ODOT Noise Manual (updated July 2011)
The purpose of this manual is to give guidance in the analysis of highway traffic noise and the design
of noise mitigation measures. This manual does not supersede the laws and regulations governing
highway construction practices and procedures.

Regional and Local
Lane Code Chapter 5.600 Prohibited Noise
The Lane County noise ordinance regulates excessive sound wherever it is deemed to be harmful to
the health, safety, welfare and quality of life of its citizens. A general exception to these regulations
applies to sounds caused by motor vehicles operated on any highway.

6.10.3. Findings
The project study area currently has dispersed rural residential properties and two smaller, older
residential subdivisions on the north side of OR 126W. Commercial properties are present on the
north side of OR 126W as the highway approaches Veneta. Recreational sites are present at Perkins
Peninsula Park and within the Fern Ridge Wildlife Area. Construction noise is relevant to the
presence of threatened or endangered bird species. If protected species are present in the project
study area, construction noise monitoring may be required. No sound walls are present in the
corridor.

FHWA guidance indicates that a noise study is required when an additional lane of through traffic
would be constructed. This also applies to passing lanes and auxiliary lanes. The effect of project



      66   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


improvements would need to be assessed in a noise study for those alternatives that add travel lanes
to the existing roadway configuration.

6.10.4. Conclusions
The federal and state guidance listed above shall be used to determine potential noise impacts to
identified receptors based on anticipated traffic volumes and speeds provided through the technical
transportation analysis for this project. Land use and zoning of vacant land will also be taken into
consideration.

If traffic related noise impacts are warranted, mitigation will need to be considered. Potential noise
impacts to sensitive resources such as park and wildlife areas and historic resources will also need to
be assessed. This will require coordination with historic specialists on the project team as well as
possible coordination with agencies that have jurisdiction over other adjacent resources: parks (Lane
County), Fern Ridge Lake (USACE), Fern Ridge Wildlife Area (ODFW).

During construction, it is necessary to honor noise ordinances that may limit construction to certain
daytime hours. A variance may be required to allow nighttime construction. In addition,
construction noise is relevant to the presence of threatened or endangered bird species. If present in
the project study area, construction noise monitoring may be required.

6.11. Right-of-Way Acquisitions and Displacements

This section discusses the potential of property acquisition for additional right-of-way and related
requirements.

6.11.1. Data Sources and Collection
Lane Code requirements were reviewed by zoning classification for transportation improvements. In
addition, GIS tax lot data was used to estimate approximate right-of-way widths for the existing
transportation facilities.

6.11.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

Federal
The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, 42 U.S.C.
4601 et seq.
The Uniform Act establishes minimum standards for federally funded programs and projects that
require the acquisition of real property (real estate) or displace persons from their homes, businesses,


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   67
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


or farms. The Act's protections and assistance apply to the acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition
of real property for federal or federally-funded projects.

United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) Fern Ridge Shoreline Management Plan (1988,
updated November 1997)
The Shoreline Management Plan provides a framework for managing shoreline resources at Fern
5LGJH/DNH,WVSULPDU\REMHFWLYHLVWR´DFKLHYHDEDODQFHEHWZHHQSXEOLFXVHHQMR\PHQWRISURMHFW
benefits, and long-WHUPUHVRXUFHSURWHFWLRQµ7KHSODQZDVSUHSDUHGE\WKHUSACE, which has
management jurisdiction over the lake.

Facilities constructed within the purview of the Shoreline Management Plan require a shoreline use
permit. There is no mention of transportation facilities or acquisition of public right-of-way for
roads. The Plan primarily addresses provision of recreational facilities such as boat moorages and
duck blinds. Any encroachment on Fern Ridge Lake would require coordination with the USACE
and determination of processes that may apply to land acquisition. A project objective is to avoid or
minimize impacts to Fern Ridge Lake.

State
ODOT Right-of-Way Manual (updated January 2011)
The ODOT ROW Manual is regularly updated to reflect federal and state policy regarding land
acquisitions, appraisals, access rights, utilities, displacements, and relocation procedures.

Fern Ridge Wildlife Area Management Plan ² Final Draft (June 2009)
Fern Ridge Wildlife Area was created in 1957 under a license agreement between the USACE and
Oregon Game Commission (now ODFW). The agreement provides authority for the state to
"develop, conserve, and manage all wildlife resources on a 5,010 acre portion of the 12,716 acres
owned by the USACE around the reservoir. The Wildlife Area consists of nine distinct management
units and extends across OR 126W. The ODFW conducts wildlife management activities (water
management, wildlife food crops) and maintains public viewing locations in the area. Land
acquisition would need to avoid or minimize disruption to such activities and wildlife habitat.
Potentially affected wildlife management units include Fisher Butte, East Coyote, West Coyote, and
South Marsh.

Regional and Local
Lane County Code Chapter 16
Chapter 16 contains the Lane County zoning code for the various rural zoning classifications. The
most common zoning in the project area is Exclusive Farm Use (EFU). Allowable transportation
uses in the EFU zone are defined in Lane Code 16.212 (3). Depending on which preferred
alternative is chosen, approval of a special use permit or exception to state land use law may be
necessary. For example, construction of additional passing and travel lanes requiring the acquisition
of right-of-way is not a permitted use in the EFU zone. Rather, it is considered a special use and


     68   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


subject to review and approval by the Lane County Planning director (LC 16.212 (4)(o)(ii)).
Construction of a new separated bikeway may also require a special use permit. The same rules apply
to the other potentially affected resource zones in the project corridor: Parks and Recreation (PR),
Forest Land (F-2), and Natural Resource (NR). To ensure compliance with state land use law and
corresponding Rural Comprehensive Plan and Lane Code requirements, Lane County planning must
be consulted to verify if proposed improvements are permitted or will require a more extensive land
use process.

6.11.3. Findings
OR 126W is the primary transportation route between Veneta and Eugene. The highway continues
west of Veneta and connects to the City of Florence at the coast. In the project study area, ROW
width is variable along the OR 126W corridor³the following are estimates based on GIS parcel line
data:
    Eastern portion of highway ² Railroad overcrossing to Green Hill Road: 80 to 100 feet
    West of the railroad overcrossing: 90 to 100 feet
    Approximately 3,300 feet west of Fisher Road to Central Road: 188 feet
    West of Central Road to western project terminus: 76 feet

OR 126W consists of two travel lanes and shoulders of variable width. The parallel facility roadways
(namely Perkins and Cantrell Roads) are two lane roads with minimal shoulders. The Perkins Road
ROW typically maintains a width of 60 feet. Cantrell Road ROW fluctuates in the 50 to 60 foot
range but narrows down to 40 feet and widens up to 80 feet at select locations.

It is anticipated that possible road improvements, with improved shoulders, additional travel lanes,
and side slopes, would require additional ROW along portions of the corridor. Depending on the
location, it is also possible for spot improvements to be accommodated within existing ROW. The
extent of ROW needs is to be determined. ROW expansion on to adjacent resource lands would
UHTXLUHUHYLHZE\/DQG&RXQW\·V/DQG0DQDJHPHQW'LYLVLRQDVDVSHFLDOXVHVHH6HFWLRQIRU
further explanation of land use requirements). Due to the dispersed nature of development in the
project area, it is likely that building displacements can be avoided. The potential for displacements
will need to be assessed as transportation alternatives are developed and refined.

6.11.4. Conclusions
Property acquisitions may be required to accommodate expansion of OR 126W or other parallel
facilities. Acquisition of right-of-way to expand highway capacity is not a permitted use in the rural
resource zones. From a land use perspective, such transportation improvements would require
processing as a special use through Lane County before right-of-way acquisition could proceed.

Any encroachment on Fern Ridge Lake or the Fern Ridge Wildlife Area would require coordination
with the USACE and ODFW to determine processes that may apply to land acquisition and
easements. In addition, the acquisition of wildlife refuge and park lands (County-owned Perkins

                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   69
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Peninsula Park abuts the north side of OR 126W) would be subject to the provisions of Section 4(f)
of the Department of Transportation Act of 1966 (see Section 6.12).

At a preliminary level, it does not appear that project alternatives would result in displacements. If
businesses or residences were displaced, the project would be subject to provisions of the Uniform
Act under federal law. A ROW report shall be prepared as part of the NEPA documentation
process. Any ROW report shall be prepared in accordance with the ODOT Right-of-Way Manual
standards and prepared by a qualified ROW specialist.

6.12. Parklands and Sections 4(f) and 6(f) Resources

This section addresses park and recreation areas, in particular, resources subject to the provisions of
Section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation Act of 1966. The presence of resources subject to
Section 6(f) of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act is also evaluated along with the presence
of resources receiving monies from State-administered grant programs.

6.12.1. Data Sources and Collection
Area maps, GIS data, and Lane County Parks Master Plan were reviewed to determine presence of
possible Section 4(f) resources. 7KHSURMHFW·VWHFKQLFDOPHPRUDQGDIRUKLVWRULFDQGDUFKDHRORJLFDO
resources were also reviewed. The ODFW website was consulted for information on the Fern Ridge
Wildlife Area. The Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) database was searched to verify
presence of any Section 6(f) resources. 7KH2UHJRQ3DUNVDQG5HFUHDWLRQ'HSDUWPHQW·VZHEVLWHZDV
also searched to find possible County Opportunity and Local Government grant awards in the
project area.

6.12.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

Federal
Department of Transportation Act of 1966, Section 4(f), 49 U.S.C. 303
6HFWLRQIUHVRXUFHVLQFOXGH´SXEOLFO\RZQHGODQGRIDSXEOLFSDUNUHFUHDWLRQDUHDRUZLOGOLIHDQG
waterfowl refuge of national, State, or local significance, or land of an historic site of national, State,
or local significance (as determined by Federal, State, or local officials having jurisdiction over the
SDUNDUHDUHIXJHRUVLWHµ86&F7KHODZSURKLELWVWKH6HFUHWDU\RI7UDQVSRUWDWLRQIURP
approving a transportation project requiring the use of such land unless there is no prudent and
IHDVLEOHDOWHUQDWLYHWRXVLQJWKDWODQGDQGWKHSURMHFWLQFOXGHV´DOOSRVVLEOHSODQQLQJWRPLQLPL]H
harm to the park, recreation area, wildlife and waterfowl refuge, or historic site resulting from the
XVHµ


      70   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, Section 6(f), 16 USC 460l-8(f)(3)
Section 6(f) of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) Act, 16 U.S.C. 460, applies to
outdoor public recreation resources that were acquired or developed by State or local agencies with
LWCF monies. It prohibits the conversion of such property to a non-recreational purpose without
WKHDSSURYDORIWKH'HSDUWPHQWRIWKH,QWHULRU·V1DWLRQDO3DUN6HUYLFH1367KH136PXVW
ensure that replacement lands of equal value, location, and usefulness are provided as conditions to
approval of land conversions.

Land and Water Conservation Fund Database
The National Park Service maintains a searchable database of projects that have received LWCF
monies in each state. It is a resource to find LWCF projects in the Corridor Plan study area and
determine the presence of sites subject to Section 6(f) provisions, cited above.

United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) Fern Ridge Shoreline Management Plan (1988,
updated November 1997)
The plan was prepared by the USACE, which has management jurisdiction over the lake. Facilities
constructed within the purview of the Shoreline Management Plan require a shoreline use permit.
There is no mention of transportation facilities or acquisition of public right-of-way for roads. The
Plan primarily addresses provision of recreational facilities such as boat moorages and duck blinds.
Any encroachment on Fern Ridge Lake would require coordination with the USACE and
determination of processes that may apply to expansion of transportation facilities.

State
Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR) Chapter 736, Division 6
7KLVUHJXODWLRQSURYLGHVIRU2UHJRQ3DUNVDQG5HFUHDWLRQ'HSDUWPHQW·V235'DOORFDWLRQRIVWDWH
lottery funds to local governments for financing the protection, repair, operation and creation of
state parks and public recreation areas through the Local Government Grant Program (LGGP).
Protection measures mimic Section 6(f) requirements, except they do not include U.S. National Park
Service involvement.

OAR Chapter 736, Division 7
This regulation provides for OPRD allocation of recreational vehicle registration fees to counties for
park and recreation sites and programs through the County Opportunity Grant Program (COGP).
Protection measures mimic Section 6(f) requirements, except they do not include U.S. National Park
Service involvement.

Oregon Statewide Planning Goal 5, OAR 660-023-0000(5), Natural Resources, Scenic and
Historic Areas, and Open Spaces
Under Goal 5, local governments throughout Oregon have adopted programs that will protect
natural resources and conserve scenic, historic, and open spaces resources. Cultural areas, including



                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   71
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


historic and archaeological resources, are among the resources recommended for inventory by local
governments and state agencies.

Oregon Statewide Planning Goal 8, OAR 660-015-0000(8), Recreational Needs
Goal 8 addresses the recreational needs of the citizens of the state and visitors and, where
appropriate, to provide for the siting of necessary recreational facilities including destination resorts.

Fern Ridge Wildlife Area Management Plan ² Final Draft (June 2009)
Fern Ridge Wildlife Area was created in 1957 under a license agreement between the Corps of
Engineers and Oregon Game Commission (now Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife-
ODFW). The agreement provides authority for the state to "develop, conserve, and manage all
wildlife resources on a 5,010 acre portion of the 12,716 acres owned by the USACE around the
reservoir. The Wildlife Area consists of nine distinct management units and extends across OR
126W. The ODFW conducts wildlife management activities (water management, wildlife food
crops) and maintains public viewing locations in the area.

Regional and Local
Lane County Comprehensive Plan (2009)
The general purpose of the comprehensive plan is the guiding of the social, economic, and physical
development of the County to best promote public health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity
and general welfare. Land at the southwest corner of Ken Neilsen Road and OR 126W has a
FRPSUHKHQVLYHSODQGHVLJQDWLRQRI´3DUNVµ

Lane County Code Chapter 16
Chapter 16 contains the Lane County zoning code for the various rural zoning classifications outside
urban growth boundaries. The property at the southwest corner of Ken Neilsen Road and OR
126W has a zoning designation of Parks and Recreation (PR). Allowable transportation uses in the
PR zone are defined in Lane Code 16.215 and16.265based upon state land use requirements for
rural lands. Depending on which preferred alternative is chosen, approval of a special use permit or
exception to state land use law may be necessary. To ensure compliance with state land use law and
corresponding Rural Comprehensive Plan and Lane Code requirements, Lane County planning must
be consulted to verify if proposed improvements are permitted or will require a more extensive land
use process.

Lane County Parks Master Plan (1980)
The purpose of the plan is to identify deficiencies and plan for the parks and open space facility
needs of Lane County. This includes maintenance and expansion of existing facilities as well as new
facilities. Peninsula County Park abuts the north side of OR 126W at the intersection with Central
Road. The park includes a picnic area, boat ramp, fishing pier, and nature trail. The Parks and Open
Space Master Plan is in the process of being updated by Lane County, but with no concrete
completion date.


      72   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




6.12.3. Findings
Publically-owned park and recreation resources are present in the project area. This includes Perkins
Peninsula Park, Zumwalt Park, and Fern Ridge Lake. The lake is managed by the USACE and
adjacent lands are managed by the ODFW as a Wildlife Area. The park lands for Perkins Peninsula
Park and Zumwalt Park are leased by Lane County from the USACE. The Fern Ridge Wildlife Area
is managed primarily for waterfowl wintering and nesting and extends across the highway to its
southern terminus at Cantrell Road. A nature trail in the Wildlife Area is accessible from a pullout
off of Cantrell Road.

Perkins Peninsula Park is operated by Lane County³the park entrance is on the north side of OR
126W at its intersection with Central Road. The park consists of parking, a boat ramp, picnic tables
and bathroom facilities with access to Fern Ridge Lake. Zumwalt Park, also a County-operated
facility, is located north of the project area away from the zone of potential transportation
improvements.

These park and recreation UHVRXUFHVZLOOEHVXEMHFWWRWKHSURYLVLRQVRI6HFWLRQI´8VHµRIWKHVH
resources, whether permanent, temporary or constructive, would be restricted unless it can be
determined that there are no prudent and feasible alternatives which avoid such use and that the
project includes all possible planning to minimize harm to such resources. Findings of historic or
archaeological resources are also subject to Section 4(f) eligibility. Coordination with project team
specialists will be necessary to verify presence of and possible effects to these resources. Sections 6.3
and 6.8 discuss archaeological and historic resource findings, respectively.

The LWCF project list was reviewed to determine if park and recreation resources in the area have
received LWCF monies. No LWCF investments were found in the project area. If present, the
properties would be subject to Section 6(f) protections, meaning conversion to other uses is
prohibited unless equivalent replacement land can be provided. Similar protection is afforded to
lands funded by state programs through the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department (LGGP and
COGP). No LGGP or COGP funded projects were found in the project area.

6.12.4. Conclusions
During planning and preliminary design, if use of any Section 4(f) resources cannot be avoided, then
measures to minimize impacts to those resources must be considered and must be determined in
consultation with the manager of the resources. For any action that identifies a direct or indirect use
of such resources, a detailed Section 4(f) evaluation document must be completed during the NEPA
documentation phase. Additional analysis will be required to verify presence of historic and
archaeological resources in the project study area. The lead federal agency cannot approve the use of
Section 4(f) resources unless there is no other feasible alternative and the action includes all possible
planning to minimize harm. No Section 6(f) resources were discovered in the project area, nor were

                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   73
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


projects funded by LGGP or COGP grants.

6.13. Socioeconomics and Environmental Justice

This section discusses socioeconomic conditions in the project study area and discusses
environmental justice populations.

6.13.1. Data Sources and Collection
Basic demographic information from the 2010 US Census was collected (as available) by Census
Tract in the project area.

6.13.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

Federal
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4321-4347
This act requires that federal agencies consider disproportionate effects to social groups and possible
mitigation measures that would help avoid or minimize adverse effects. It requires public
involvement throughout the environmental review process, including appropriate levels of outreach
to minority or low-income populations or communities.

Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VI), 42 U.S.C 2000d, 49 CFR Part 21, 23 CFR Part
200
Title VI prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin. IWUHTXLUHVWKDW´QR
person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or
activity receiving Federal financiDODVVLVWDQFHµ86'27·VUHJXODWLRQVSURYLGHJXLGHOLQHVIRUD
Implementing the FHWA Title VI compliance program under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 and related civil rights laws and regulations, and (b) Conducting Title VI program compliance
reviews relative to the Federal-aid highway program. The Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987
specified that recipients of federal funds must comply with civil rights laws in all areas, not just in a
particular program or activity that receives federal funding.

Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (Fair Housing Act), 42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.
This act prohibits housing discrimination and designates protected populations, taking into account
´UDFHFRORUUHOLJLRQVH[KDQGLFDSIDPLOLDOVWDWXVRUQDWLRQDORULJLQµLQUHORFDWLRQGHFLVLRQV

Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1970 (FAHA 1970), 23 U.S.C. 109(h)



      74   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


7KLVSURYLVLRQHQVXUHVWKDW´Sossible adverse economic, social, and environmental effects relating to
any proposed project on any Federal-aid system have been fully considered in developing such
project, and that the final decisions on the project are made in the best overall public interest, taking
into consideration the need for fast, safe and efficient transportation, public services, and the costs
of elimination or minimizing such adverse effects [as]: air, noise, and water pollution; destruction of
disruption of human-made and natural resources, aesthetic values, community cohesion and the
availability of public facilities and services; adverse employment effects, and tax and property values
losses; injurious displacement of people, businesses and farms; and disruption of desirable
FRPPXQLW\DQGUHJLRQDOJURZWKµ

The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, 42 U.S.C. 6101-6107
This act prohibits age discrimination in federally assisted programs and activities.

The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), 42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.
This act protects persons with disabilities. The ADA gives civil rights protections to individuals with
disabilities similar to those provided to individuals on the basis of race, color, sex, national origin,
age, and religion. It guarantees equal opportunity for individuals with disabilities in public
accommodations, employment, transportation, state and local government services, and
telecommunications. Persons with disabilities must be accommodated at public meetings and in
terms of information provided. Final design of transportation alternatives must meet appropriate
ADA standards for sidewalks, street crossings, and other similar infrastructure improvements.

The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, 42 U.S.C.
4601 et seq.
The Uniform Act establishes minimum standards for federally funded programs and projects that
require the acquisition of real property (real estate) or displace persons from their homes, businesses,
or farms. The Act's protections and assistance apply to the acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition
of real property for federal or federally- funded projects.

Executive Order 12898 ² Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority
Populations and Low-Income Populations, 59 Federal Register 7629 (Feb. 11, 1994)
This order requires that federal agencies identify and address disproportionately high and adverse
human health or environmental effects of programs, policies, and/or activities on minority
populations and low-income populations. It addresses both the requirements for equal justice
embodied in Title VI of the Civil Rights Act, and the requirements for environmental protection
embodied in NEPA.

Executive Order 13166 ² Improving Access to Services for Persons with Limited English
Proficiency, 65 Federal Register 50121 (Aug. 16, 2000)
This order requires that federal agencies improve access to their federally conducted programs and
activities by eligible persons with limited English proficiency. This order has particular relevance to


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   75
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


the NEPA mandate to foster public involvement in the environmental review process. It stipulates
that accommodations must be made for persons with limited English proficiency who wish to
participate in public environmental reviews.

U.S. DOT Environmental Justice Order 6510.2, 62 Federal Register 18377 (April 15, 1997)
The Department of Transportation issued this order to comply with Executive Order 12898,
Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income
Populations. The Order generally describes the process that the Office of the Secretary and each
Operation Administration will use to incorporate environmental justice principles (as embodied in
the Executive Order) into existing programs, policies, and activities.

State
Oregon Senate Bill 420
Effective on January 1, 2008, this new law established an environmental justice task force and
requires the natural resources agencies (fourteen in all, including ODOT) to follow prescribed steps
to provide greater public participation and to ensure the involvement of persons who may be
affected by agency actions. Passing of this law places greater emphasis on inclusive public outreach
for transportation projects.

Oregon Transportation Plan 2006
7KH2UHJRQ7UDQVSRUWDWLRQ3ODQ273LVWKHVWDWH·VORQJUDQJHPXOWLPRGDOWUDQVSRUWDWLRQSODQDQG
overarching policy document for the statewide transportation system. Policy 7.4 in the OTP is
addresses environmental justice. The policy advocates equal access to transportation decision-
making for all Oregonians, regardless of race, culture, or income. The policy is intended to avoid
disproportionate impacts to environmental justice communities, in compliance with federal
guidelines.

Regional and Local
Lane County Comprehensive Plan
The general purpose of the comprehensive plan is to guide the social, economic, and physical
development of the County to best promote public health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity
and general welfare. The General Plan Policies address planning goals applicable to the
socioeconomics discipline: Goal 1 Citizen Involvement, Goal 10 Housing, Goal 11 Public Facilities
and Services, Goal 12 Transportation.

6.13.3. Findings
Demographic information was collected for Lane County Census Tracts 9.03, 10.01, and 10.02. The
project area is encompassed by these Census Tracts with a total population of 11,937 in 2010. Racial
composition is aggregated for the three Census Tracts in Table 6.5. The Census geography is shown
in Figure 6.9.



     76   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                              OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



Table 6.5. Racial Composition within Census Tracts
                                 Race                                       Percent
 White                                                                      92.64%
 Black or African American                                                  0.44%
 American Indian and Alaska Native                                          1.08%
 Asian                                                                      0.85%
 Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islander                                 0.22%
 Some Other Race and Two or More Races                                      4.77%
Source: US Census Bureau, 2010


Figure 6.9. Census Tracts in Project Study Area




Within the Census Tract area, persons who reported themselves as Hispanic or Latino consisted of
4.36% of the total population of 11,937 in 2010. Persons age 65 and older comprised 16.1% of the
population in 2010.

The project study area is characterized by rural lands and wildlife habitat with dispersed residences in
the travel corridor between Eugene and Veneta. At the western project terminus, on the approach to


                            February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   77
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Veneta, commercial properties are present on the north side of OR 126W. At the eastern project
terminus, there is a service station in the NE quadrant of the OR 126W and Green Hill Road
intersection. A meat packing plant is located south of OR 126W adjacent to the east side of Central
Road. Community facilities in the project area are recreational in nature with two public parks and a
designated Wildlife Area around Fern Ridge Lake.

6.13.4. Conclusions
The minority population in the project vicinity is quite small. It will need to be determined if Title
VI or EJ populations within the project study area have the potential to be adversely impacted by
project actions. Participation in project decisions is essential to ensure public concerns are known,
particularly those that might affect Title VI or EJ populations. Documentation of EJ considerations
must be evaluated in a Socioeconomics report if alternatives are advanced to NEPA-level analysis
for further study. Any potential displacement of businesses or residences and effects to community
facilities would also be assessed at that time.

6.14. Traffic and Transportation

This section describes the screening level potential effects of the conceptual alternatives on traffic
and transportation.

6.14.1. Data Sources and Collection
The section describes data sources and the methods used to collect and evaluate data to determine
traffic and transportation considerations for the project.

6.14.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
Project staff conducted a review of state, regional, and local level plans and policies that directly
influenced the OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan. The alternatives reviewed in the plan were
found to be in accordance with the regulations, goals, and objectives of all applicable plans. For
more detailed information regarding the transportation related regulations, polices and plans
reviewed for this project, please refer to Technical Memorandum #1, OR 126W Fern Ridge
Corridor Plan ² Transportation Review of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (DKS, 2011)
in Appendix A.

State
Interim Corridor Strategy: Highway 126 West (April 1998, Oregon Department of
Transportation, Region 2)
This long-range plan for managing and improving transportation facilities and services to meet the
needs for moving people and goods covers the section of OR 126W from Highway 101 in Florence
to Interstate 5 in Eugene. The OR 126W corridor has statewide significance because it is:
    An important route for national, state, regional, and local users and is a significant route for
    commuters, tourists, and truck traffic.

     78   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


   The primary route connecting the central Oregon Coast to the Eugene-Springfield metropolitan
   area in the southern Willamette Valley.
   Critical to regional connectivity in southwest Oregon.

The Interim Strategy was endorsed by the Oregon Transportation Commission (OTC), Lane
&RXQW\/7'DQGWKHFLWLHVRI(XJHQH9HQHWDDQG)ORUHQFHWRLQIRUPWKHDJHQFLHV·WUDQVSRUWDWLRQ
plans and comprehensive land use plans as appropriate. Specific public comments, analysis findings,
and strategy recommendations from the strategy for the section of OR 126 from Veneta to Eugene
include the following:

Safety and Crash Profile
   Two of the four fatalities on the corridor between 1994 and 1996 occurred between Veneta and
   the Beltline Highway in Eugene. This is a proportionately high number of fatalities (relative to
   total collisions) compared to the other corridor segments.
   Safety was one of the most frequently cited public concerns for the corridor. Curves, rain, and
   darkness were three of the main contributors to unsafe conditions, especially in locations where
   there are higher traffic volumes, the road is narrower, and there are ruts in the pavement. In
   addition, the lack of shoulders creates difficulties for service vehicle and emergency situations.

Public Transit
   Working with existing providers to improve transit service and inter-modal links along the
   corridor; specifically, proposes that Lane Transit District (LTD) improve bus service within the
   City of Veneta and from Eugene to Veneta, including a Park-and-Ride in Veneta with
   convenient express service to Eugene.

Bicycles
   Widening shoulders as needed; particular concern for the section between Veneta and Eugene.
   Constraints include varying shoulder widths, limited alternative routes, geographic constraints,
   and environmental issues.
   Designating a bike route from Territorial Road to Eugene, including repaving gravel on Cantrell
   and Nielson Roads and signing the route.

Pedestrians
   Although there are no sidewalks along the corridor, the need for pedestrian facilities along the
   corridor was not a large concern for corridor users due to reliance on the automobile. However,
   facilities should be considered within Veneta and at other locations with pedestrian activity.

Environmental
   Although there are multiple potential conflicts with natural resources near the highway due to
   the proximity of the Fern Ridge Lake, by balancing the needs of people versus the environment
   the lake and other scenic and natural resources could be made into destinations for recreation,


                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   79
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


    with improvements such as a bike path connection and turning wetland mitigation areas into
    recreational education areas.

Freight Rail
    Supporting appropriate land use designations to provide increased freight rail access
    opportunities.

Motor Vehicle Capacity
    Prepare a refinement plan addressing safety and congestion for the segment from Veneta to
    Eugene, which is currently the most heavily congested on the corridor and may increase with
    employment growth in west Eugene and residential development in Veneta.

Refinement Planning
    Prepare a refinement plan addressing safety and congestion for the segment from Veneta to
    Eugene to explore alternatives through a community consensus-building process.
    Consider identified congestion and capacity improvements: (1) widening the shoulders for bike
    lanes and emergency parking, (2) expanding the highway to four lanes, (3) paving K.R. Nielsen
    Road for use as an alternative route, (4) rerouting OR 126 around Fern Ridge Lake, and (5)
    adding a reversible HOV lane between Veneta and Eugene.

Florence-Eugene Highway Conditions Report (2001, Oregon Department of Transportation)
This report provides information about the OR 126 corridor in an electronic format primarily using
interactive maps. It contains a comprehensive data set that describes the current physical and
operating conditions on OR 126. It also provides a general forecast of future travel demand and an
assessment of the ability of the existing highway to handle expected growth through 2025 under no-
build conditions (i.e., if no improvements are made between now and then). Therefore, its intent is
to pinpoint the geometric, operational, and safety deficiencies that are likely to occur if there is no
investment in OR 126, beyond those currently planned and programmed. Using the information in
this report, ODOT and local partners will be able to define critical problems, analyze alternative
improvement concepts, and develop recommended long-term solutions to the problems created by
the deficiencies in the OR 126 corridor.

This report is intended to help ODOT focus its planning efforts on the most significant problems
and to act as a catalyst for further discussion about how best to invest in OR 126.

TPAU Review of Florence-Eugene Highway Conditions Report (December 7, 2001, ODOT
Transportation Planning Analysis Unit)
The ODOT Transportation Planning Analysis Unit (TPAU) performed a traffic analysis that was
used in the preparation of the 2001 Florence-Eugene Highway Conditions Report. The analysis was for 30th
highest hour traffic volumes under the 2001 Existing and 2025 Future No-Build scenarios. The
memorandum indicates that traffic characteristics for the section of OR 126 from Florence to


     80   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Veneta was characterized as daily commuter traffic with a peak hour from 5:00 to 6:00 p.m. This
finding was supported by the higher volume-to-capacity ratio at the OR 126/Territorial Highway
intersection during the weekday p.m. peak hour versus the weekend recreational peak hour (both
peak hours were analyzed for this intersection).

The future analysis indicated that in the 2025 No-Build scenario, both unsignalized intersections and
the entire mainline between Veneta and Eugene fail to meet the 1999 OHP mobility standards. One
potential improvement that would address congestion (though may have other undesirable impacts),
would be to widen this section of the highway to four lanes. In addition, the Fisher Street and
Central Road intersections with OR 126 are locations that may need turn lanes in the future due to
safety and operational concerns. If turn lanes on OR 126 are provided in the future, then they
should be sufficiently long to accommodate potential queues caused by gate down time at the
adjacent railroad track. The Fisher Street intersection was also identified as a location that is
expected to meet traffic signal warrants under the 2025 Future scenario.

Oregon 126 Safety Study (April 8, 2005)
This study provides an analysis of highway safety on OR 126 between the western edge of the
Eugene metro area and US 101 in Florence. The study identifies the types, causes, and severity of
crashes given the current highway condition and daily traffic. One purpose of the study was to
assess the impacts of future projected traffic as well as previously unanticipated casino traffic growth
on the existing safety condition in the corridor. Study recommendations include safety mitigation
priorities that encompass the range of alternatives including education, enforcement, and
engineering options.

Some of the specific findings and recommendations for the corridor segment between Veneta and
Eugene include the following:
   Enforcement staff and Emergency Medical Service (EMS) first responders would benefit from:
   o Turnarounds and launch pads
   o Roadway and/or shoulder widening
   Safety could be improved by installing:
   o 6KRXOGHUUXPEOHVWULSVZKHUH·VKRXOGHUVDUHDYDLODEOH
   o Edge and centerline raised pavement markers when permitted by ODOT (or other
       centerline demarcation to help reduce cross-over collisions)
   The segment between mile points 49.00 to 49.49 (near Fern Ridge Lake) is a two lane roadway
   with guardrail that protects drivers from water (wetlands) on each side of the roadway. This
   segment was examined in greater detail due to higher occurrence of crash severity and frequency.
   The analysis indicated that this segment:
   o Has a long straight section with intersection at MP 49 not clearly defined with decreased
       sight visibility due to location and placement of guardrail.
   o Needs improved visibility or audible for improved recognition of intersection



                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   81
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


   A major contributing factor to crash potential appears to be the diverse mix of corridor users
   that includes everything from log trucks to recreational travelers heading to and from the coast.
   Accordingly, raising the awareness of all drivers to the need to drive safely is expected to
   produce the most beneficial and observable results.

Oregon Transportation Plan (Adopted September 20, 2006)
The OTP is a comprehensive plan that addresses the future transportation needs of the State of
Oregon through the year 2030. It considers all modes of transportation, including airports, bicycle
and pedestrian facilities, highways and roadways, pipelines, ports and waterway facilities, public
transportation, and railroads.

Seven goals with associated policies and strategies are provided in the plan to address the core
challenges and opportunities facing transportation in Oregon. The seven goals are:
    Goal 1 ² Mobility and Accessibility: To HQKDQFH2UHJRQ·VTXDOLW\RIOLIHDQGHFRQRPLFYLWDOLW\
    by providing a balanced, efficient, cost-effective and integrated multimodal transportation
    system that ensures appropriate access to all areas of the state, the nation and the world, with
    connectivity among modes and places.
    Goal 2 ² Management of the System: To improve the efficiency of the transportation system
    by optimizing the existing transportation infrastructure capacity with improved operations and
    management.
    Goal 3 ² Economic Vitality: To proPRWHWKHH[SDQVLRQDQGGLYHUVLILFDWLRQRI2UHJRQ·V
    economy through the efficient and effective movement of people, goods, services and
    information in a safe, energy efficient and environmentally sound manner.
    Goal 4 ² Sustainability: To provide a transportation system that meets present needs without
    compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs from the joint perspective of
    environmental, economic and community objectives. This system is consistent with, yet
    recognizes differences in, local and regional land use and economic development plans. It is
    efficient and offers choices among transportation modes. It distributes benefits and burdens
    fairly and is operated, maintained and improved to be sensitive to both the natural and built
    environments.
    Goal 5 ² Safety and Security: To plan, build, operate and maintain the transportation system
    so that it is safe and secure.
    Goal 6 ² Funding the Transportation System: To create a transportation funding structure
    that will support a viable transportation system to achieve state and local goals today and in the
    future.
    Goal 7 ² Coordination, Communication and Cooperation: To pursue coordination,
    communication and cooperation among transportation users, providers and those most affected
    by transportation activities to align interests, remove barriers and bring innovative solutions so
    the transportation system functions as one system.




     82   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


There are also six key initiatives identified to reflect the desired direction of the plan and to frame
the plan implementation. These initiatives are:
    Maintain the existing transportation system to maximize the value of the assets. If funds are not
    available to maintain the system, develop a triage method for investing available funds.
    Optimize system capacity and safety through information technology and other methods.
    Integrate transportation, land use, economic development, and the environment.
    Integrate the transportation system across jurisdictions, ownerships, and modes.
    Create a sustainable funding plan for Oregon transportation.
    Invest strategically in capacity enhancements.

The Implementation Framework section of the OTP also describes the implementation process and
how state multimodal, modal/topic plans, regional and local transportation system plans, and facility
SODQVZLOOUHILQHWKH273·VEURDGSROLFLHVDQGLQYHVWPHQWOHYHOVThe Corridor Plan is a facility plan.
7KH6WDWH$JHQF\&RRUGLQDWLRQ3URJUDPGHILQHVDIDFLOLW\SODQDV´DSODQIRULQGLYLGXDO
transportation facilities that includes identification of needs for using the facility, an overall plan for
LPSURYLQJWKHV\VWHPDQGSROLFLHVIRURSHUDWLQJWKHIDFLOLW\µ)DFLOLW\SODQVPXVWEHDGRSWHGE\WKH
OTC, and must be developed with public involvement and implement the OTP and the applicable
modal/topic plan goals, policies, implementation strategies, and broad investment scenarios.

Oregon Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan (Adopted 1995, Included in September 2006 Oregon
Transportation Plan)
The Oregon Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan is an element of the OTP, which was most recently
adopted in September 2006. The goal of the plan is to provide safe and accessible bicycling and
walking facilities in an effort to encourage increased levels of bicycling and walking. The plan
provides actions that will assist local jurisdictions in understanding the principals and policies that
2'27IROORZVLQSURYLGLQJELNHDQGZDONZD\VDORQJVWDWHKLJKZD\V,QRUGHUWRUHDFKWKHSODQ·V
objectives, the strategies for system design are outlined, including:
    Providing bikeway and walkway systems and integrating with other transportation systems.
    Providing a safe and accessible biking and walking environment.
    Developing educational programs that improve bicycle and pedestrian safety.

Also included is specific information pertaining to walkway design, street crossings, intersection
pedestrian crossings and bicycle facility design.

1999 Oregon Highway Plan (OHP) (August 2006 Version, includes Amendments Nov. 1999
through Jan. 2006)
The basic framework for the 1999 Oregon Highway Plan (OHP) is a refinement and application of the
goals and policies stated in the Oregon Transportation Plan to the state highway system. The OHP
gives policy and investment direction to large scale plans (such as the Corridor Plan), but is not
intended to direct specific projects and modal alternatives.



                         February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   83
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


One of the key goals of the OHP is to maintain and improve safe and efficient movement of people
and goods, while supporting statewide, regional, and local economic growth and community
livability. The implementation of this goal occurs through a number of policies and actions that
guide management and investment decisions by defining a classification system for state highways,
setting standards for mobility, employing access management techniques, supporting intermodal
connections, encouraging public and private partnerships, addressing the relationship between the
highway and land development patterns, and recognizing the responsibility to maintain and enhance
environmental and scenic resources.

Specific OHP policies with bearing on the Corridor Plan include the following:

Policy 1A ² State Highway Classification System
   The OR 126 project study area corridor is classified as a Statewide Highway. It is also part of the
   National Highway System (NHS), is a State Freight Route (FR), and is a Federally Designated
   Truck Route (TR). The eastern section of the corridor is part of the Beltline Highway (Highway
   69), and the western section is part of the Florence-Eugene Highway (Highway 62).

Policy 1B: Land Use and Transportation
   Land use and transportation planning and development should be coordinated between state,
   regional, county, and city agencies. Key elements of this policy indicate that the State of Oregon
   and local agencies should:
   o Work together to provide safe and efficient roads for livability and economic viability for all
       citizens
   o Work collaboratively in planning and decision-making related to transportation system
       management
   o Maintain the mobility and safety of the highway system
   o Encourage the availability and use of transportation alternatives

Policy 1C: State Highway Freight System
   OR 126 has been designated a Freight Route by ODOT, which places added emphasis on
   efficient operation to ensure the timely and dependable movement of goods. To support this
   function, special management objectives for freight routes were developed as outlined in Policy
   1C of the OHP. Key objectives relating to this plan include:
   o Application of higher highway mobility standards than other Statewide Highways;
   o Examine options to treat designated freight routes as expressways where the routes are
        outside of urban growth boundaries and unincorporated communities and continue to treat
        freight routes as expressways within urban growth boundaries where existing facilities are
        limited access or where corridor or transportation system plans indicate limited access
   o Consider the importance of timeliness in freight movements in developing and
        implementing plans and projects.



     84   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                       OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Policy 1F: Highway Mobility Standards
      ODOT has adopted standards for mobility for state facilities through the OHP and the Highway
      Design Manual (HDM). Standards contained in the OHP are used for planning purposes to
      identify deficiencies, while facilities and improvements are designed to HDM standards.
      The OHP Highway mobility standards are based on various factors, including highway
      classification and designations, whether it is within a metropolitan planning organization (MPO)
      or UGB, and the posted speed. The section of OR 126 being studied is a Statewide Highway
      designated as both a truck route and freight route. The Green Hill Road intersection is within
      the Central Lane MPO, and the Huston Road intersection is within the Veneta UGB. The speed
      limit along the entire study corridor is posted at 55 mph. Table 6 from the OHP indicates the
      applicable mobility standards based on the location and posted speed of a given highway
      segment. The entries of OHP Table 6 that are applicable to the study corridor are provided in
      Table 6.6.

Table 6.6. ODOT Mobility Standardsa Applicable for OR 126 (from OHP Table 6)
                                 Inside Eugene UGB                  Inside Veneta UGB             Outside UGB
     Highway Category
                               Inside Central Lane MPO            PSKSRVWHGVSHHG                   Rural Lands
 Freight Route on a              0.85 (Green Hill Road               0.80 (Huston Road             0.70 (Rest of
 Statewide Highwayb                   intersection)                     intersection)                Corridor)
 Stop-controlled side
                                           0.95                              0.90                       0.75
 streetsc
 a ODOT operating standards obtained from December 2011 version of Table 6 in OHP.
 b At signalized intersections, these standards are to be applied to the intersection as a whole. At unsignalized
 intersections, these standards are applicable only to movements that are not required to stop.
 c For movements at unsignalized intersections that are required to stop or otherwise yield the right of way,

 the standards for District/Local Interest Roads shall be applied.

Policy 1G: Major Improvements
      According to this policy, the highest priority should be placed on protection of the existing
      system, followed by improvements in efficiency and capacity of existing facilities. Once these
      options have been investigated, the third and fourth priorities would be to add capacity to the
      existing system and then to add new facilities.

Policy 2A: Partnerships
      The limited resources available for transportation planning and development should be
      efficiently and effectively used by coordinating the efforts of all agencies. For the project
      corridor, the applicable agencies include the City of Veneta, the City of Eugene, Lane County,
      and ODOT.




                            February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                85
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Policy 2B: Off-System Improvements
    The State is to provide financial assistance for local road projects when the projects are cost-
    effective in improving state facility conditions.

Policy 2D: Public Involvement
    The governmental bodies should offer opportunities for effective public involvement in
    transportation planning and project development.

Policy 2F: Traffic Safety
    Increase the safety of the state transportation system through engineering, education,
    enforcement, and emergency medical services. Key elements from this policy include:
    o In identifying solutions to traffic safety problems, consider solutions including but not
        limited to: Increasing traffic enforcement; involving business and community groups and the
        media in educational efforts; using educational materials and special signing to change
        driving practices; making engineering improvements such as geometrics, signing, lighting,
        striping, signals, improving sight distance, and assessing conditions to establish appropriate
        speed; constructing appropriate bicycle and pedestrian facilities including safe and
        convenient crossings; managing access to the highway; developing incident response and
        motorist assistance programs; ensuring the uniformity of traffic control devices; and
        developing driver information systems.
    o &RQWLQXHWRGHYHORSDQGLPSOHPHQWWKH6WDWH·V Safety Management System to target
        resources to sites and routes with the most significant safety problems. Encourage local
        governments to adopt a safety management system.
    o Work with citizens and local jurisdictions to address safety concerns on the state highway
        system.

Policy 3A: Classification and Spacing Standards
    Access to state highways should be managed to assure safe and efficient operations consistent
    with the classification system outlined in Policy 1A. Access considerations include the location,
    spacing, and type of access (i.e., public versus private). Access spacing standards and
    management objectives for OR 126 are based on its designation as a Statewide Highway (NHS)
    and Non-Expressway (i.e., Rural Other):
    o Statewide Rural Highways provide for high speed, continuous flow and through traffic
        movement.
    o Direct access to the abutting property is a minor objective.
    o The function of the highway is consistent with purchasing access rights. As the opportunity
        arises, access rights should be purchased. Preference is to purchase access rights in full.
    o The primary function of these highways is to provide connections to larger urban areas,
        ports and major recreation areas of the state not served by Freeways or Expressways.



     86   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Policy 3B: Medians
    Policy 3B in the OHP addresses the installation of non-traversable medians in state highways.
    According to this policy, the installation of non-traversable medians shall be considered for (only
    potentially applicable conditions for OR 126 are listed):
    o Highways not undergoing modernization where a median could improve safety;
    o Highways where forecasted average daily traffic is anticipated to be 28,000 vehicles per day
        during the 20-year planning period
    o The annual accident rate is greater than the statewide average accident rate for similar
        roadways
    o Pedestrians are unable to safely cross the highway, as demonstrated by an accident rate that
        is greater than the statewide annual average accident rate for similar roadways
    o Topography and horizontal or vertical alignment result in inadequate left-turn intersection
        sight distance and it is impractical to relocate or reconstruct the connecting approach road or
        highway to improve the situation

Goal 3 (Access Management) is critical in transportation planning efforts that involve state
transportation facilities. This goal is implemented through OAR 734-051, which is reviewed later in
this Background Document Review Memorandum. Goal 4 (Travel Alternatives) and Goal 5
(Environmental and Scenic Resources) also apply, if in limited ways. Goal 5, with an aim to go
beyond what is required by other state and federal regulations, calls for natural resources to be
maintained and even improved by transportation planning and projects involving state facilities.

Oregon Public Transportation Plan (Adopted 1997)
The transit modal plan, called the Oregon Public Transportation Plan (OPTP), develops the OTP
goals and objectives related to the public transportation system, including public transit, special
needs transportation, transportation options DQGLQWHUFLW\EXV3XEOLF7UDQVLW'LYLVLRQ·VSURJUDPV
are designed to implement the OPTP. The OPTP was adopted in 1997, and is scheduled to be
updated beginning in 2011-2013.

ODOT Rail Plan (Adopted 2001, Included in September 2006 Oregon Transportation Plan)
7KH2UHJRQ5DLO3ODQLVDFRPSUHKHQVLYHDVVHVVPHQWRIWKHVWDWH·VUDLOSODQQLQJIUHLJKWUDLODQG
passenger rail systems (not including light rail or other rail transit type services). It documents and
describes various federal and state rail planning requirements and highlights specific goals and
policies. It also reviews the development of the state freight and passenger rail systems and identifies
needed improvements. Particular emphasis is placed on safety, public and private coordination,
efficiency, and multi-modal integration. Segments of the plan that are expected to be the most
relevant to the Corridor Plan are referenced below (and should be referred to as needed throughout
the planning process):




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   87
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


    Rail Division Involvement: Whenever any road work (including construction of a sidewalk) is
    proposed within 500 feet of a railroad track, the party responsible for the project should consult
    ODOT Rail Division.
    New Crossing Construction.
    Alteration of Existing Public Crossings.
    Improving Safety: Safety is the most important conflict to mitigate in most urban areas. There
    are a variety of ways to improve safety at grade crossings that may be applied individually or in
    combination.
    Minimizing Conflict and Increasing Access: Careful planning can mitigate conflict and
    improve access. Recommendations for local jurisdictions are provided.

Oregon Freight Plan
The Oregon Freight Plan (OFP) is currently in draft form and has not yet been adopted. Its purpose
will be to improve freight connections to local, state, regional, national and global markets in order
to increase trade-related jobs and income for Oregon workers and businesses. It will provide a
roadmap for the ODOT, other state and local agencies, and the private sector to work together to
preserve and eQKDQFHWKH6WDWH·VIUHLJKWV\VWHP

Oregon State Rail System Maps
The railroad that runs parallel to OR 126 is identified on the Oregon State Rail System maps as an
Oregon Short Line. There is no passenger rail that uses this track, but OR 126 is identified as an
Intercity Bus Route as well as an Interline Thruway Bus Route.

2009 ODOT Traffic Manual
The ODOT Traffic Manual is a comprehensive reference for traffic engineering practices published
by the Traffic Engineering and Operations Section. This manual covers recommended practices for
use on state facilities in the areas of access management, bicycle treatments, capacity analysis, crash
analysis, crosswalks, illumination, signing, pavement markings, parking, sight distance, speed zones,
traffic calming, turn lanes, u-turns, and other topics.

Oregon Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) (2010 ² 2013 STIP and 2012 ²
2015 Draft STIP)
The current adopted (2010-2013) Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) serves as
2'27·VVKRUWWHUm capital improvement program and provides funding and scheduling
information for transportation projects for both ODOT and the metropolitan planning
organizations in the state. Projects funded in the STIP reflect and advance the Oregon
Transportation Plan for highways, public transportation, and for freight, passenger rail, bicycle, and
pedestrian facilities. No projects on the OR 126 project study area roadway were identified within
the adopted 2010-2013 STIP or the draft 2012-2015 STIP.

ODOT Safety Priority Index System (SPIS) (Prepared in 2010 using data from 2007 to 2009)


     88   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                                  OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


The Safety Priority Index System (SPIS) is a method developed by ODOT for identifying potential
safety problems on state highways. SPIS scores are developed based upon crash frequency, severity,
and rate. A prioritized list is created for each region (the top 10 percent of statewide SPIS sites) and
the top five percent are investigated by the five Region Traffic manager's offices. There are not
locations on the OR 126 study corridor within either the top five or top 10 percent, but the Green
Hill Road intersection is in the top 15 percent of statewide SPIS sites.

In addition to the SPIS, the Safety Investment Program (SIP) is a tool used to identify accident
history in 0.10 mile or variable length segments on state highways. The OR 126 study corridor has a
Category 3 SIP rating because from 2007 to 2009 it had three to five fatal or serious injury crashes
per 5 mile segment.

Oregon Access Management Rule (OAR 734-051 Temporary Rules)
TKHSXUSRVHRI2UHJRQ·V$FFHVV0DQDJHPHQW5XOHLVWRFRQWUROWKHLVVXLQJRISHUPLWVIRUDFFHVVWR
VWDWHKLJKZD\VVWDWHKLJKZD\ULJKWVRIZD\DQGRWKHUSURSHUWLHVXQGHUWKH6WDWH·VMXULVGLFWLRQ,Q
addition, the ability to close existing approaches, set spacing standards, and establish a formal
appeals process in relation to access issues is also identified.

These rules enable the State to set policy and direct location and spacing of intersections and
approaches on state highways, ensuring the relevance of the functional classification system and
preserving the efficient operation of state routes. Regulating access can:
    Protect resource lands
    Preserve highway capacity
    Ensure safety for segments of state routes with sharp curves, steep grades, or obstructed sight
    distance.

The access management standards adopted by ODOT and applicable to the OR 126 project study
corridor are summarized in Table 6.7 below.

Table 6.7. Applicable ODOT Access Management Standards
                                                        Spacing Standardsb (by Posted Speed)
     Highway Categorya
                                     PSK               50 mph          40,45 mph           30,35 mph         PSK
 Statewide Highway (urban)          1,320 feet       1,100 feet       800 feet            500 feet         350 feet
 Statewide Highway (rural)          1,320 feet       1,100 feet       990 feet            770 feet         550 feet
 a
  OR 126 is classified by ODOT as a Statewide Highway.
 b
  Measurement of the approach road spacing is from center to center on the same side of the roadway.
 Source: OAR 734-51 Temporary Rules- Effective January 1, 2012


ODOT applies the urban access standards for OR 126 within the Eugene and Veneta UGBs and the
rural standards elsewhere. Any new street or driveway connections, as well as any changes to existing

                                February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                   89
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


street or driveway connections, on OR 126 must be found to be in compliance with these rules by
ODOT.


2003 ODOT Highway Design Manual and Amendments (2003, with revisions in 2004 and 2005-
2006)
The ODOT Highway Design Manual (HDM) contains standards for the design of state highways and
various highway elements. Included in the manual are elements to be considered for evaluating the
feasibility of construction and determination of right of way needs such as the general alignments,
roadway widths, and criteria for installation of turn lanes. In addition, the HDM should be used to
identify areas where design exceptions may be required.

The HDM displays the maximum allowable volume to capacity ratios for the 30th highest annual
hour of traffic for use in the design of highway projects. These standards are to be applied to
conditions forecasted to exist 20 years after completion of the proposed improvement. If the
applicable mobility standard cannot be met, a design exception would be required.

ODOT Practical Design Strategy (March 1, 2010, ODOT Highway Division)
Practical Design is a relatively new term used to define and improve current best practices for
developing cost-effective transportation solutions that are the right projects, at the right time, at the
ULJKWFRVWDQGLQWKHULJKWZD\,WLVDVWUDWHJ\WKDWGHOLYHUVIRFXVHGEHQHILWVIRUWKH6WDWH·V
transportation system while working with the realities of a fiscally constrained funding environment.
It focuses more on meeting the specific purposes, needs, and context of transportation projects and
on identifying solutions that are considered sufficient to improve the transportation system without
being excessive. Therefore, there is more flexibility in design, which will typically result in greater
analysis and planning costs. However, the intended result is a more cost effective roadway solution.

ODOT has developed a strategy for Practical Design that provides a foundation for thought and
processes to achieve more focused improvements at a lower cost, even if those improvements are
not as long lived as traditional ODOT highway improvements.

ODOT has five key values associated with Practical Design. These values are represented by the
acronym S.C.O.P.E.:
    Safety
    Corridor Context
    Optimize the System
    Public Support
    Efficient Cost

Regional and Local
West 11th Avenue Corridor Study (July 2010, DKS Associates for the City of Eugene)


     90   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


A study of the West 11th Avenue corridor (which transitions into OR 126 as it heads west and leaves
the Eugene UGB) was completed for the City of Eugene in 2010. The purpose of the study was to
identify short-term strategies to improve bicycle and pedestrian facilities, corridor safety, access,
signal timing, and traffic operations. The corridor study area spanned from Green Hill Road on the
west to Chambers Street on the east.

The only overlap of the West 11th Avenue Corridor Study with the current Corridor Plan is near the
Green Hill Road intersection (both studies include this as a study intersection). The West 11th
Avenue Corridor Study identified the need to either upgrade West 11th Avenue to a five-lane urban
arterial or construct a dual-lane roundabout at the West 11th Avenue (OR 126)/Green Hill Road
intersection (though this improvement was not one of the four improvements identified as highest
priority for ODOT and the City of Eugene).

The study also identified the need to provide an improved bicycle connection between Ed Cone
Boulevard (which has bike lanes and connects to the Fern Ridge Path) and Crow Road (which is a
major cycling route). Any bicycle facility improvements on OR 126 should consider how best to
connect to the Fern Ridge Path in this vicinity.

A New Vision for West Eugene (March 2009, West Eugene Collaborative)
The West Eugene Collaborative (WEC) formed in early 2007 with the aid of the Oregon Consensus
Program. It is an ad hoc group encompassing a broad variety of viewpoints, including political and
governmental leaders, business leaders, leaders of neighborhood groups, leaders of nonprofit
RUJDQL]DWLRQVDQGOHDGHUVZLWKLQWKHHQYLURQPHQWDOFRPPXQLW\7KH:(&·VSXUSRVHLVWR´GHYHORS
an integrated land use and transportation solution, supported by stakeholders, that will facilitate
movement of people and commerce from/through/to west Eugene and west of Eugene while
HQKDQFLQJFRPPXQLW\EXVLQHVVDQGWKHHQYLURQPHQWµ

This report documents analysis and recommendations that cover a large area of interest that extends
as far west as Veneta. It is intended to be viewed as a general course that seems to have potential for
addressing concerns in the west Eugene area. One of the recommendations was to complete a safety
and mobility study for OR 126. All recommendations are intended to promote further public input,
discussion, and consideration. Therefore, the WEC recommends efficient and transparent public
planning, local community outreach and relationship building, and continued collaboration among
all agencies and stakeholders.

City of Veneta Comprehensive Plan (Ordinance 416) (Adopted September 25, 2000; most
recently amended November 23, 2009)
7KH&RPSUHKHQVLYH3ODQVHUYHVDV9HQHWD·VORQJ-range land use plan and as a policy guide to
physical development decisions. The Transportation element of the Veneta Comprehensive Plan
provides goals and policies to guide the development of the TSP and to monitor future
transportation strategies and improvements. These goals and policies address quality of life,


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   91
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


congestion, connectivity, access, multi-modal mobility, environmental impact, coordination, design
standards, and other issues.

Veneta Transportation System Plan (Ordinances 401, 427, 432, and 464) (Adopted November 9,
1998; most recently amended April 24, 2006)
Veneta adopted their first TSP in 1998. This plan has been amended by ordinance three times (in
2001, 2002, and 2006). The TSP is the long-range policy document that guides transportation
planning within the Veneta UGB for the next 20 years. The plan assumes that the city will grow
from its population of approximately 2,850 residents in 1996 (and 480 jobs in 1994) to
approximately 5,450 residents and 840 jobs by the year 2015 (between 4% and 5% yearly growth).
The plan was written by Lane Council of Governments and funded by ODOT and the City of
Veneta. The issues raised in the TSP that are applicable to the OR 126 study area corridor include:

Traffic Control and Access
   Traffic control (i.e. signing, striping, etc.) is not adequate to control flow of traffic
   Only one signal (Territorial Road intersection)
   Huston Road provides one additional access point which could be used to divert some of the
   traffic through connectivity with other streets; directing traffic to Huston Road may increase
   need for additional signal
   Ingress/egress standards need to be fair for all access/users
   Alternate access needed for emergency vehicles
   Recommendation: Additional Traffic Signal(s) on OR 126

Traffic Congestion
   Only route to the coast from Eugene
   Congestion of a wide variety of vehicle types on road; i.e. commercial, recreational, commuter
   Road capacity is not adequate, nor has it been for 25 years
   Future traffic on highway likely to increase
   Recommendation: Widen Highway to 4 lanes

Safety
   Frequent accidents at major intersections
   Difficult to access OR 126 from side streets during peak traffic hours

Speed
   Speed limits are too high between Ellmaker and West Lane Center
   More traffic enforcement is needed
   Conflict between speeds driven by highway travelers and business customers. Ingress and egress
   for businesses is hazardous
   Greater speed reduction zone near traffic signal is needed



     92   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


The projects identified in the TSP for the OR 126 study area corridor include:
   Project B6 (Safe Pedestrian and Bicycle Crossing of OR 126, shared responsibility
   between ODOT and City of Veneta): The best location for a grade separated crossing
   improvement is most likely west of Huston Road (i.e., near Hope Lane). However, crossing
   improvements, such as median refuge islands and other treatments may be beneficial in the
   study corridor.
   Project B8 (Traffic Signal at OR 126/Huston Road Intersection, shared responsibility between
   ODOT and City of Veneta, Cost Estimate = $5 million): The TSP reported that Huston Road
   was not meeting signal warrants at the time of the TSP preparation. Once the intersection meets
   warrants (based on a future traffic study: Study D-4), then a signal should be constructed. The
   proximity of the railroad crossing south of the intersection will affect improvement design and
   costs.
   Project B14 (Off-Street Paths, responsibility of City of Veneta, Cost Estimate =
   $500,000): Construct paths for bicyclists and pedestrians along the drainage-ways within the area
   already designated open space/greenway in the Comprehensive Plan. The cost estimate does not
   include right-of-way or easement acquisition.

City of Veneta Land Development (Ordinance 493) (Adopted January 25, 2010)
Article 5 provides land development supplementary provisions, including the following
transportation-related sections:
    SECTION 522: Pedestrian Access and Circulation (page 115)
    SECTION 523: Transit Facilities (page 116)
    SECTION 524: Access Management (page 117)
    SECTION 527: Traffic Impact Analysis and Mitigation (page 122)
    SECTION 528: Street Trees (page 123)

Fern Ridge Trail System: Visions and Strategies (July 2007)
The Fern Ridge Trail System visioning document is a long range vision and conceptual tool that
provides general insight in the following areas:
   Establishing the need for the proposed trail system
   Potential trail location and opportunities identification (descriptions, table, and map)
   Factors that influenced mapping and project prioritization
   Funding strategies (includes trial project grant schedule)
   Community input (group meetings, open house, and questionnaires)

This preliminary planning process was intended to raise awareness about the vision, to create a
conceptual framework that helps facilitate the development of partnerships, and to place the City of
Veneta in a better position to obtain grant funding and other forms of assistance as opportunities
arise. It is a starting point to explore the feasibility of the individual projects and trail segments
identified in the vision. The map of proposed routes is intended to be refined and adjusted based on
additional planning and implementation efforts. Some additional efforts that are needed prior to

                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   93
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


implementing individual trail projects include a more detailed analysis of such issues as engineering,
cost, funding, and environmental, social, and economic impacts.

Eugene-Springfield Metropolitan Area General Plan (Metro Plan) (2004 Update)
The Eugene-Springfield Metropolitan Area General Plan, also known as the Metro Plan is an
overarching guidance document and functions as a framework for supplemental documents to
provide more detailed programs, plans, and policies for the metropolitan area of Lane County and
the cities of Eugene and Springfield. The Metro Plan is a long-range planning document that
establishes and the goals and policies to guide land use. Land use encompasses growth,
development, redevelopment and conservation of resources. The Metro plan includes a
transportation element; however it does not provide location-specific recommendations.

Eugene-Springfield Transportation System Plan (TransPlan) (July 2002)
The Eugene-Springfield Transportation System Plan (TSP), also known as TransPlan, contains
transportation goals, policies, and strategies to address transportation needs for the Eugene-
Springfield metropolitan area through the year 2021. The 7UDQV3ODQWKHPHZDV´,PSURYLQJ2XU
7UDQVSRUWDWLRQ&KRLFHVµZKLFKUHIOHFWVWKHSODQ·VIRFXVWRSURYLGHDYDULHW\RIWUDQVSRUWDWLRQPRGHV
and smooth connections between those modes.

TransPlan has developed a Capital Investment Action Project List. The list includes both Financially
Constrained 20-year Capital Investment Actions and Future (Beyond 20 Years) 20-Year Capital
Investment Actions. The constrained projects are then subdivided into Programmed projects which
are expected to have a 0-5 year implementation horizon that have funding sources identified and un-
programmed projects that do not have specific funding identified but are expected to be funded
within the 20-year planning future. The TransPlan Financially Constrained 20-Year Capital
Investment Action project lists were adopted and incorporated by amendment into the Metro Plan.
They are also the same projects identified in the Central Lane MPO Regional Transportation Plan.
There are some differences, but the Central Lane MPO Regional Transportation Plan is more up-to-
date.

Central Lane MPO Regional Transportation Plan (November 2007, Lane Council of
Governments)
The Central Lane MPO Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) guides regional transportation system
planning and development in the CLMPO metropolitan area. The RTP includes provisions for
meeting the transportation demand of residents over a 20-year planning horizon (2031) while
addressing transportation issues and making changes that can contribute to improvements in the
UHJLRQ·VTXDOLW\RIOLIe and economic vitality represents a required update to the federal RTP.

The RTP is adopted by the Metropolitan Policy Committee (MPC) and is required to be updated
every four years (i.e., the next update is anticipated for 2011). The ongoing nature of regional
transportation planning allows the RTP to be a dynamic plan of action for the future transportation


     94   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


system, rather than a static snapshot in time. The RTP is particularly important for guiding
transportation public policy and investment decision making over the three- to five-year period
following plan adoption, until the next plan update.

7KH573HVWDEOLVKHVWKHIUDPHZRUNXSRQZKLFKWKHUHJLRQ·VSXEOLFDJHQFLHVFDQPDNHFRQVLVWHQW
and coordinated planning decisions regarding inter- and intra-jurisdictional transportation. The
regional planning process ensures that the planning activities and investments of the local
jurisdictions are coordinated in terms of intent, timing, and effect. The RTP sets forth the long-
range policy framework for decision mDNLQJIRUWKHIROORZLQJHOHPHQWVRIWKHUHJLRQ·VPXOWL-modal
transportation system:
     Regional roadways
     Regional transit system
     Regional bikeways and pedestrian circulation
     Regional goods movement (multiple modes)
     Regional aspects of other modes, including air, rail, and inter-city bus service

Implementation actions also accompany the policy element as a core component of the RTP. The
RTP Policy Framework (Chapter Two) and Implementation Actions (Chapter Three) are structured
around three fundamental components of transportation planning:
    Land use
    Transportation demand management
    Transportation system improvements

Projects Applicable to OR 126 Project Study Area
The Central Lane MPO boundary covers Eugene, Springfield, Coburg, and some adjacent
surrounding areas. On the west, its boundary extends just west of Green Hill Road. Therefore, only
a small portion of the project VWXG\DUHDLVZLWKLQWKH032ERXQGDU\LQWKH032·V*HRJUDSKLF
District 4). The following projects were identified in the plan:
    RTP Table 1a-Financially Constrained ² Capital Investment Actions: Roadway Projects
    o Project 333. West 11th Avenue (Green Hill Road to Terry Street): Upgrade to 5-lane
        urban facility; ODOT and Eugene; $20,000,000; 1.51 miles; includes striped bike lane
    o Project 485. Green Hill Road (Airport Road to Barger Drive): Rural widening and
        intersection modifications; Lane County; $2,800,000; 1.98 miles; includes striped bike lane
    RTP Table 3a-Financially Constrained ² Capital Investment Actions: Bicycle Projects
    o Project 453. Green Hill Road (West 11th Avenue to Crow Road): Striped bike
        lane/shoulder; Lane County; $250,000; 0.26 miles
    RTP Table 3b-Illustrative ² Capital Investment Actions: Bicycle Projects
    o Project 426. Fern Ridge Path #3 (Royal Avenue to Fern Ridge Lake): Multi-use path;
        Eugene and Lane County; $6,891,000; 0.91 miles;




                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   95
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Central Lane MPO Unified Planning Work Program (FY 2012 and 2013) (May 2011 (Covering
July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2013))
The Unified Planning Work Program (UPWP) is a federally required certification document
describing the transportation planning activities to be undertaken in the Central Lane metropolitan
area for a specific fiscal year or years. Development of the UPWP provides local agencies with an
opportunity to identify transportation needs, objectives, and products.

This document identifies the Oregon 126: Veneta-Eugene Facility Plan as one of the Major Facility
Studies (LCOG Action Item #5). This study will be conducted in partnership with ODOT, the City
of Eugene, and Lane County. The document states the following about the plan:
    The OR 126 corridor, from Veneta to Eugene, is primarily a two-lane highway with capacity and
    environmental constraints. Since 1998, three reports discuss existing conditions and interim
    safety improvements to the highway. No long-term improvement plan to address capacity,
    safety, or operations issues exists. This project is a planning-level analysis for the OR 126
    corridor, specifically from Veneta to Eugene. The analysis will precede a future NEPA process
    and will reduce the costs during that process by completing a high-level alternatives analysis for
    the facility. This planning-level analysis will examine existing reports, existing highway
    FRQGLWLRQVIXWXUH¶QR-EXLOG·FRQGLWLRQVDQGRSSRUWXQLWLHVDQGFRQVWUDLQWVA variety of long-
    term solutions, including identification of alternate routes, highway capacity improvements,
    and/or a combination of solutions to address safety and operations will also be analyzed. The
    analysis will identify any fatal flaws of alternatives considered and recommend solutions to
    forward for more detailed examination during the future NEPA process.

2010 Federal Priorities: United Front Partners of Lane County, Oregon
This document was presented to the Oregon Congressional Delegation and identified the federal
priorities of the United Front partners in Lane County for fiscal year 2011. One of the priorities was
obtaining funding for the OR 126W/Green Hill Rd to Veneta Corridor Study (Lane County). The
specified intent of the project was to perform initial planning and NEPA Study work to begin the
process to identify problems and potential solutions for the OR 126 corridor extending from Green
Hill Road on the western boundary of the Eugene-Springfield urban growth area to the City of
Veneta. Detailed background information and a project description are provided for the project.

Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan (Updated January 2009)
The Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan applies to all unincorporated lands within the County
beyond the Urban Growth Boundaries of incorporated cities in the County and beyond the
boundary of the Eugene-Springfield Metropolitan Area Plan. It includes general County planning
policies that provide broad direction and interpretation of approaches for county planning needs
and complying with State of Oregon planning law.

Goal 12 of the plan addresses transportation. It includes policies directed at providing a coordinated,
balanced, efficient, safe, and attractive transportation system.


     96   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Lane County Transportation System Plan (May 5, 2004)
The Lane County TSP is a 20-year planning document that provides greater clarity for planning and
managing the County transportation system in terms of coordination with new development,
targeted transportation improvements, fiscal management, and cooperation with local and state
agencies on transportation issues. The TSP fulfills state requirements in accordance with OAR 660-
012. The applicable area of Figure 5c from the TSP is provided below and shows the proposed
projects in the vicinity of the OR 126 Project Study Area (Figure 6.10). Most projects are rural
modernization or upgrading to urban standards. There are also some bicycle and pedestrian projects
near Veneta.

Figure 6.10. Proposed Projects within Study Area




Lane Code: Ch. 16 (Rural Comprehensive Plan and Rural Zoning) and Ch. 10 (Zoning)
The Lane Code includes transportation-related code information in Chapter 16 (Rural
Comprehensive Plan and Rural Zoning) and Chapter 10 (Zoning). Chapter 16 provides for allowable
rural transportation uses and development outside of urban growth boundaries, while Chapter 10
provides for transportation uses and development inside urban growth boundaries and outside of
city limits. Lane County delegated authority to Eugene (and Springfield) to regulate zoning inside
(XJHQH·VDQG6SULQJILHOG·VUGBs.




                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   97
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


6.14.3. Findings

Transportation Issues and Recommendations from Prior Studies and Plans
The key issues and recommendations identified in prior studies and plans that have findings or
guidelines relevant to OR 126W between Veneta and Eugene are summarized below. For more
detailed information, please refer to Technical Memorandum #1, OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor
Plan² Transportation Review of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards (DKS, 2011).
    The Interim Corridor Strategy: OR 126W provides corridor planning framework and was
    intended to be used as the starting point for the development of a Corridor Plan for OR 126W
    from Florence to Eugene. It also recommended a refinement plan (and identified a few potential
    improvement ideas) addressing safety and congestion for the segment from Veneta to Eugene to
    explore alternatives through a community consensus-building process.
    The other corridor-related studies further identify corridor concerns and provide potential
    improvement ideas that should be considered.
    The City of Veneta studies outline goals and objectives of the City. They also identify various
    improvements, particularly on the west end of the study corridor.
    The City of Eugene (and overall Central Lane MPO) studies outline goals and objectives of the
    Eugene-Springfield area. They also identify various improvements, particularly on the east end
    of the study corridor.
    The Lane County studies outline goals and policies for the County. They also identify various
    improvements, particularly on the side streets that intersect OR 126W in the rural area between
    Veneta and Eugene.
    The ODOT plans provide information and standards that are applicable to OR 126W, including:
    o The OR 126W project study area corridor is classified as a Statewide Highway. It is also part
        of the National Highway System (NHS), is a State Freight Route (FR), and is a Federally
        Designated Truck Route (TR). The eastern section of the corridor is part of the Beltline
        Highway (Highway 69), and the western section is part of the Florence-Eugene Highway
        (Highway 62).
    o Goals, policies, and standards are provided for each transportation mode to be serviced on
        the corridor.
    o Access spacing standards (1,320 feet given 55 mile per hour speed limit)
    o Oregon Highway Plan (OHP) mobility standards (vary between 0.70 and 0.80 for
        intersections and free movements and between 0.80 and 0.90 for side street stopped
        approaches depending on corridor segment)
    o Highway Design Manual (HDM) mobility standards (vary between 0.60 and 0.75 depending
        on corridor segment)
    o Implementation resources are provided that guide the preparation and adoption of facility
        plans.




     98   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Existing Conditions
This section summarizes existing transportation conditions for OR 126W between Veneta and
Eugene, Oregon (see Figure 6.11), and is part of the Corridor Plan. It identifies existing facilities as
well as operational and safety deficiencies. Included in this section is information about the roadway
network, daily motor vehicle traffic characteristics, origin-destination survey, intersection traffic
volumes and operations, collision analysis, pedestrian and bicycle facilities and activity, transit
service, and rail facilities and activity. For more detailed information, please refer to Appendix B:
Technical Memorandum #2, OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan² Existing Transportation
Conditions (DKS, 2011).

Roadway Network
OR 126W is the primary east-west roadway in the project study area and is a rural route between the
cities of Eugene and Veneta. It traverses farmland, runs parallel to the Coos Bay rail line (CBRL),
and skirts the southern edge of the Fern Ridge Lake, which is a popular recreational area. It is
primarily used by commuters traveling between Eugene and Veneta, but it is also the primary route
connecting the Eugene-Springfield area with the Oregon coast.

OR 126W is under ODOT jurisdiction and is classified as a Statewide Highway. It is also part of the
National Highway System (NHS), is a State Freight Route (FR), and is a Federally Designated Truck
Route (TR). Table 6.8 lists the existing project study area roadway characteristics of OR 126W as
well as the primary cross streets in the project study area that provide access to OR 126W. All
project study area roadways (including OR 126W) are two-lane facilities, though OR 126W widens
on occasion to accommodate a left-turn lane at key intersections. In addition, none of the roadways
have designated bike lanes or sidewalks, though OR 126W through the project study area has paved
shoulders that range from four to ten feet wide.




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   99
          ),*85( 6.1
          FIGURE     . STUDY
                        STUDYAREA
                              AREA




                                                                                                              CONRAD
                                                                                                  CHERYL LN
                                                                                                                               JEANS RD        ZUMWALT




                                                                      WINTER LN
                                                                                                                                               PARK
RN RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                                                 ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                                               CHUKAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OAK HILL PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FISHER RD
      E    RD
  TTL
                                                                                              WIGGINS
                                            VENETA                                                                                                       PERKINS PENINSULA
                                                                                                                                                               PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GOBLE LN
                                                JEANS RD
                                                                                   WILDWOOD RD                                                                           Boat Ramp                                                                            JUDY
                                                             Public Works                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    126
                                                                                                                                         126
              BROADWAY                         AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                            KEN NIELSEN RD                                                                                       ED CON




                                                                                                                                                                     D
                    5TH ST




                                                                                                                                                               RAL R
                                                 Veneta Elementary       Veneta Wellhead
           8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LA PORTE DR
10TH ST




                                            Fire Station                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OAK HILL                         CROW RD
                                              Library                                INSET




                                                                                                                                                           CENT
                                                                                  HUSTON RD




                                                BOLTON RD          JOSEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Coyote Creek
          Oregon Dept.                                                                                                                                                                               Canoe Trailhead
            Of Forestry CHENEY DR                                                                                                                                         CANTRELL RD                                                                                      CANTRELL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W RD
           Fire Station




                                                                                                                                                                                                       HALDERSON RD
                                                                                                                                                Fire Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EUGENE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CRO
                                                                                               BIGGS RD




                                                                                                                                          PERKINS RD
                             RITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                        K KNOLL RD
                    1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LIN
                                               OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FEATHER DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUSHYTAIL LN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CLAY DR
          Legend




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WILDWOOD RD
                                                                                                                                                                                     VENETA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELLMAKER
                                                 Study Intersection                                                                     Railroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  126
                                                 Place of Interest                                                                      Urban Growth Boundary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HUSTON RD


                                                 Major Arterial                                                                         City Limit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROAD
                                                 Minor Arterial




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PRIVATE
                                                                                                                                        Park
                                                 Collector                                                                                                                                                                                    TIDBALL LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Veneta
                                                 Local                                                                                                                                          Wellhead



                                                                                                                                                                                              E HUNTER RD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AN
                                                                               OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Table 6.8. Existing Roadway Characteristics (Study Area)
                                                   Functional           Travel     Posted      Side-      Bike
      Roadway               Jurisdiction
                                                  Classification        Lanes      Speed       walk      Lanes
 OR 126W                 ODOT                 Statewide Highwaya           2         55         No         No
 Huston Rd               City of Veneta       Major Collectorb             2         55         No         No
 Ellmaker Rd             Lane County          Rural Minor Collectorc       2         NPd        No         No
 Shady Rest Dr           Private              N/A                          2         NPd        No         No
 Lake Side Dr            Lane County          Rural Localc                 2         NPd        No         No
 Central Rd              Lane County          Rural Major Collectorc       2         NPd        No         No
 Fisher Rd               Lane County          Rural Minor Collectorc       2         NPd        No         No
 Richmond St             Lane County          Rural Localc                 2         NPd        No         No
 Kenneth Nielson Rd      Lane County          Rural Localc                 2         NPd        No         No
 Green Hill Rd           Lane County          Rural Major Collectorc       2         NPd        No         No
 Crow Rd                 Lane County          Rural Major Collectora       2         NPd        No         No
 Perkins Rd              Lane County          Rural Minor Collectorc       2         NPd        No         No
 Cantrell Rd             Lane County          Rural Localc                 2         NPd        No         No
 a Source: 1999 Oregon Highway Plan (August 2006 Version).
 b Source: Veneta Transportation System Plan (Adopted Nov. 9, 1998, Amended Apr. 24, 2006).
 c Source: Lane County Transportation System Plan (Adopted May 5, 2004).
 d 13 1RW3RVWHG´EDVLFUXOHµRUVDIHVSHHGIRUWKHFRQGLWLRQVDSSOLHV .



Daily Motor Vehicle Traffic Characteristics
Daily motor vehicle traffic characteristics were evaluated along OR 126W using bi-directional traffic
volumes, speeds, and vehicle classification data. The data was collected using roadway tubes on a
summer weekday at the following five locations:
    OR 126W east of Huston Road
    OR 126W west of Central Road
    OR 126W west of Fisher Road
    OR 126W west of Ken Nielsen Road
    OR 126W west of Green Hill Road

Figure 6.12 shows the bi-directional average daily traffic (ADT) volumes, 85th percentile speeds and
heavy vehicle percentages recorded at these five locations. The ADTs along the corridor range
between 13,390 and 15,850 vehicles per day, with the greatest volumes occurring in the center of the
corridor near Fisher Road. Heavy vehicle activity ranges from three to five percent along the
corridor. The 85th percentile speed exceeds the 55-mph speed limit by more than 5 mph at the four
westernmost locations.



                           February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report      101
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Figure 6.13 provides additional insight regarding traffic trends by comparing the bi-directional traffic
volumes by the hour of the day. As shown, there is a significant eastbound morning peak of
approximately 800 vehicles per hour (vph) between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., which drops off but
then maintains a fairly consistent 400 vph until approximately 5 p.m. In the westbound direction,
hourly traffic volumes gradually build throughout the day, with peak volumes of approximately 800
vph between 4:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. Therefore, this graph shows a distinct commuter trend during
the weekday as Veneta residents drive to work in Eugene for the morning and then return home in
the evening.

Figure 6.12. Daily Motor Vehicle Traffic Characteristics




Figure 6.13. Bi-Directional Volume Comparison by Hour of the Day (Summer Weekday)
                                   24 Hour Directional Volumes
                                  OR 126(W) west of Central Road
            900
            800                                                                              Eastbound

            700                                                                              Westbound

            600
 Vehicles




            500
            400
            300
            200
            100
              0




                                                             Time



            102   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Origin-Destination Survey
To understand the use of OR 126W to travel to, from, or through Veneta, an origin-destination (O-
D) survey utilizing MAC address (i.e., Bluetooth) sampling was conducted over three weekdays in
June 2011. Three data collection points were used to estimate the percentage of vehicles originating
in or destined for Veneta or the surrounding areas versus the percentage of vehicles remaining on
OR 126W and traveling through Veneta. The O-D survey collection points included the following
(which are shown in Figure 6.14):
    West of 8th Avenue on OR 126W (west of Veneta)
    East of Ellmaker on OR 126W (near western study corridor extent)
    West of Green Hill Road on OR 126W (near eastern study corridor extent)

MAC addresses recorded at all three collection points indicate a through trip that remains on OR
126W, while those only recorded at one or two points indicate a trip either beginning or ending in
Veneta or somewhere within the study corridor. Figure 6.14 shows the origin-destination survey
results as percentages of vehicles entering the study corridor at the two ends of OR 126W. Of the
recorded westbound vehicles entering the project study area, the O-D surveys indicate that
approximately 25 percent turn off of OR 126W prior to reaching Veneta, 50 percent turn off within
Veneta, and 25 percent pass through Veneta and continue westbound on OR 126W. Of the
recorded eastbound vehicles entering Veneta, the O-D surveys indicate that approximately 50
percent are destined for Veneta while the remaining 50 percent stay on OR 126W and continue
eastbound towards Eugene.

Figure 6.14. Bluetooth Origin-Destination Survey Directional Split and Percentages




                         February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   103
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Intersection Traffic Volumes and Operations
Traffic volumes were collected and operating conditions were analyzed at each of the following
study intersections and driveways along the OR 126W study corridor.
    OR 126W/Huston Road
    OR 126W/13 existing private driveways between Huston Road and Ellmaker Road
    OR 126W/Ellmaker Road
    OR 126W/Shady Rest Drive
    OR 126W/Lake Side Drive
    OR 126W/Central Road
    OR 126W/Fisher Road
    OR 126W/Richmond Street
    OR 126W/Ken Nielsen Road
    OR 126W/Green Hill Road

2'27·V$QDO\VLV3URFHGXUHV0DQXDO$30LQGLFDWHVWKDWH[LVWLQJFRQGLWLRQVRSHUDWLRQVDQDO\VLVLV
to be performed using the 30th highest hour volume (30th HV). The 30th HV for the OR 126W study
corridor intersections were determined by following three steps discussed below.

Step 1 ² Collect Peak Hour Traffic Counts
Motor vehicle turn movement counts were collected at the study intersections and driveways for the
a.m. and p.m. peak periods. Based on the raw data, which are provided in the appendix to Technical
Memorandum #2 (DKS, 2011)(Appendix B), the system peak hours for the corridor were
determined to be 7:15 to 8:15 a.m. and 4:45 to 5:45 p.m.

Step 2 ² Apply Seasonal Factor
A seasonal factor was applied to each study intersection to calculate the 30th HV. Three optional
PHWKRGVIRUFDOFXODWLQJDVHDVRQDOIDFWRUDUHRXWOLQHGLQ2'27·V$QDO\VLV3URFHGXUHV0DQXDO
(APM). Based on specific requirements, the ATR Seasonal Trend method was used to determine the
seasonal adjustment factor. Because OR 126W serves a mix of commuter traffic and coastal
destination traffic, the average of these two traffic trend characteristics was used. The result for the
June 2, 2011, intersection turn movement count date is a seasonal adjustment factor of 1.11. The
raw system p.m. peak hour turn movement volumes were multiplied by this factor to determine the
30th HV. The raw system a.m. peak hour volumes were also multiplied by this factor to determine
the corresponding a.m. peak hour design volumes to use for existing conditions analysis.

Step 3 ² Round and Balance Volumes
The 30th highest hourly volumes were rounded and balanced as appropriate based on direction
provided in the APM. Rounding helps clarify that absolute precision is not expected for the traffic
volumes, and balancing ensures that reasonable progression on a corridor is being considered.
However, for very low volume turn movements (i.e., less than three vehicles) rounding was not
performed. Instead, the actual volumes are shown for clarity in reporting where turn movements


    104   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                     OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


actually occurred. Figure 6.15 provides the 30th HV (and the associated a.m. peak hour volumes) for
the OR 126W study intersection that results from rounding and balancing. This figure also identifies
the existing intersection traffic control and turn lane geometries.

Average Annual Weekday Volumes
The average annual weekday traffic volumes for the OR 126W study corridor intersections were
determined in a similar manner as the 30th HV. The only difference was that because June volumes
are higher than average, the raw system p.m. peak hour turn movement volumes were multiplied by
0.95 factor (i.e., reduced by five percent). The raw system a.m. peak hour volumes were also
multiplied by this factor to determine the corresponding a.m. peak hour design volumes. The
volumes were then rounded and balanced as previously discussed. Figure 6.16 shows the resulting
annual average weekday turn movement counts for each of the study intersections.

Intersection Performance
The performance of each OR 126W study corridor intersection under 30th HV and average annual
conditions was evaluated and compared to the applicable volume-to-capacity (v/c) mobility
standard(s), as required by ODOT and Lane County. Table 6.9 shows the applicable mobility
standards for the OR 126W study corridor intersections. The ODOT mobility standards are
controlling because they require the intersection to operate at a lower v/c ratio.

Table 6.9. ODOT and Lane County Mobility Standardsa
                                        Inside Veneta UGB,
                                                                         Outside UGBs            Inside Eugene UGB and
                                       Non-MPO with 55 mph
                                                                      (i.e., all intersections     Central Lane MPO
        Roadway Category                      speed limit
                                                                   between Huston Road and          (i.e. Green Hill Road
                                          (i.e. Huston Road
                                                                         Green Hill Road)                 intersection)
                                              intersection)
 ODOT
 Freight Route on a Statewide         0.70                         0.70                          0.80
 Highwayb
 Stop-controlled side streetsc        0.80                         0.80                          N/A
 Lane County
 County Roads (worst movement)        N/A                          0.80                          N/A
 a ODOT operating standards obtained from August 2005 version of Table 6 in OHP, Lane County operating standards
 obtained from Table 6 of 2004 Lane County TSP.
 b At signalized intersections, these standards are to be applied to the intersection as a whole. At unsignalized

 intersections, these standards are applicable only to movements that are not required to stop.
 c For movements at unsignalized intersections that are required to stop or otherwise yield the right of way, the standards

 for District/Local Interest Roads shall be applied for areas within urban growth boundaries and a maximum v/c ratio of
 0.80 shall be applied for areas outside of urban growth boundaries.




                             February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report            105
1. Hwy 126 @ Huston Rd.                                 2. Driveway 1                                                         3. Driveway 2                             4. Driveway 3                                5. Driveway 4                                                      6. Driveway 5                       7. Driveway 6                            8. Driveway 7


            20

            10
            5                                  RT 20




                                                                                1
                                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
            RT TH LT




                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                               TH 660                           RT LT                        RT 1                               RT LT          RT 0              RT LT                 RT 2                       RT LT                          RT 0                             RT LT            RT 0              RT LT             RT 2                    RT LT        RT 5
                                               LT 145                                                        TH 825                                            TH 825                                  TH 820                                                    TH 820                                            TH 815                              TH 815                               TH 815
        15 LT                                                                     1 LT                                                            0 LT                              0 LT                                            0 LT                                                             0 LT                              1 LT                                      2 LT
       345 TH                              LT TH RT                             405 TH                                                          405 TH                            405 TH                                          405 TH                                                           405 TH                            405 TH                                    405 TH
        20 RT
                                          15
                                           5
                                          50




9. Driveway 8                                           10. Driveway 9                                                    11. Driveway 10                               12. Driveway 11                              13. Driveway 12                                                    14. Driveway 13                     15. Hwy 126 @ Ellmaker Rd.               16. Hwy 126 @ Shady Rest Dr.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     35
                                                                                                                                                10




                                                                                                                                                                                 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                1
                                                                                1
               5
               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                 RT LT                         RT 1                             RT LT                        RT 1                               RT LT          RT 1              RT LT                 RT 10                      RT LT                     RT 15                                  RT LT           RT 0               RT LT            RT 125                  RT LT       RT 0
                                               TH 815                                                        TH 815                                            TH 805                                  TH 795                                               TH 790                                                 TH 800                              TH 790                              TH 895

               0 LT                                                               0 LT                                                           10 LT                             5 LT                                            15 LT                                                            1 LT                              20 LT                                      0 LT
             410 TH                                                             410 TH                                                          400 TH                           395 TH                                           385 TH                                                          390 TH                             370 TH                                    400 TH




17. Hwy 126 @ Lake Side Dr.                             18.              Hwy 126 @ Central Rd.                            19.               Hwy 126 @ Fisher Rd.        20. Hwy 126 @ Richmond St.                   21. Hwy 126 @ Ken Neilsen Rd.                                      22.   Hwy 126 @ Green Hill Rd.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                55
                                                                                                                                                115
                                                                               2
                                                                               0
                                                                               2




                                                                                                             RT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                  RT 70
            0
            0
            0




                                              RT 5




                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                2



            RT TH LT                                                           RT TH LT                                                                                          RT LT                                                                                                           RT TH LT
                                              TH 890                                                         TH 875                             RT LT          RT 5                                    RT 0                                  TH 920                                                                TH 905
                                              LT 1                                                           LT 155                                            TH 920                                  TH 930                                LT 5                                                                  LT 125

       0 LT                                                               2 LT                                                                   45 LT                             0 LT                                       435 TH                                                           25 LT
     400 TH                                                             385 TH                                                                  430 TH                           425 TH                                         0 RT             LT RT                                        410 TH           LT TH RT
                                          LT TH RT                                                       LT TH RT
       0 RT                                                              10 RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5 RT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              55
                                                                                                         20
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                         70
                                          0
                                          0
                                          1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LEGEND
                     TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                JEANS RD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 00 - Study Intersection                           - Driveway
                                                                                                                                                                                           FISHER RD
                                                                                                CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - Lane Configuration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - Stop Sign




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              00 - 30th Highest Hour Traffic Volume
                                                                                  ELLMAKER RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - Traffic Signal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LT TH RT - Volume Turn Movement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Left Thru Right
                                         JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                              GOBLE LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21
                                                                                                                                                                                              19        20
                                                        1                              15                             16 17                18
      BROADWAY                          AVE                                                                                                                                                                  KEN NIELSEN RD                             22
                                                                                Driveways (#2 - #14)
            5TH ST




                                                        HUSTON RD
   8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LA PORTE DR
                                                                                Numbering from West to East                                                                                                                                                      CROW RD                                                                                                              Figure 6.15
                                        BOLTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2011 30TH HIGHEST HOUR TRAFFIC
                                                                                                                              CENTRAL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W RD



                                       CHENEY DR                                                                                                 CANTRELL RD                                              CANTRELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VOLUMES, LANE GEOMETRY,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
                                                                    BIGGS RD




                                                                                                             PERKINS RD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NO SCALE
1. Hwy 126 @ Huston Rd.                                        2. Driveway 1                                                         3. Driveway 2                                    4. Driveway 3                                  5. Driveway 4                                                      6. Driveway 5                             7. Driveway 6                             8. Driveway 7

             10 (15)

             25 (5)
             5 (5)




                                                                                       0 (1)
                                                                                       1 (1)




                                                                                                                                                        0 (2)
                                                                                                                                                        0 (0)




                                                                                                                                                                                                0 (5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                0 (1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 (0)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 (5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 (0)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0 (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0 (1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0 (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0 (5)
                                               RT 10 (15)
             RT TH LT                                                                  RT LT                                                            RT LT                                   RT LT                                            RT LT                                                             RT LT                                    RT LT                                      RT LT
                                               TH 200 (560)                                                         RT 0 (1)                                           RT 0 (0)                                       RT 1 (2)                                                   RT 0 (0)                                          RT 0 (0)                                  RT 1 (2)                               RT 0 (5)
                                               LT 20 (125)                                                          TH 230 (705)                                       TH 230 (705)                                   TH 230 (700)                                               TH 230 (700)                                      TH 230 (695)                              TH 230 (695)                           TH 230 (695)

    (10) 5 LT                                                                   (1) 0 LT                                                                (0) 0 LT                               (0) 5 LT                                          (0) 1 LT                                                         (0) 2 LT                                 (1) 0 LT                                    (2) 0 LT
 (295) 495 TH                               LT TH RT                       (340) 670 TH                                                            (340) 670 TH                           (340) 665 TH                                      (340) 665 TH                                                     (340) 665 TH                             (340) 665 TH                                (340) 665 TH
   (20) 10 RT
                                            (10) 25
                                             (5) 10
                                           (40) 150




9. Driveway 8                                                  10. Driveway 9                                                      11. Driveway 10                                    12. Driveway 11                                13. Driveway 12                                                    14. Driveway 13                           15. Hwy 126 @ Ellmaker Rd.                16. Hwy 126 @ Shady Rest Dr.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15 (15)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           85 (30)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15 (10)
                                                                                                                                                        1 (10)




                                                                                                                                                                                                10 (5)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10 (5)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1 (0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0 (0)
                0 (5)
                2 (0)




                                                                                       1 (1)
                                                                                       0 (1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0 (0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2 (1)
                                                                                                                                                        0 (0)




                                                                                                                                                                                                5 (5)
                 RT LT                          RT 1 (1)                               RT LT                        RT 0 (1)                            RT LT          RT 0 (1)                 RT LT                 RT 10 (10)                 RT LT                      RT 5 (5)                               RT LT           RT 0 (0)                 RT LT            RT 10 (105)               RT LT        RT 0 (0)
                                                TH 230 (695)                                                        TH 230 (695)                                       TH 230 (685)                                   TH 220 (680)                                          TH 215 (680)                                           TH 220 (685)                              TH 205 (675)                           TH 215 (765)

           (0) 5 LT                                                             (0) 1 LT                                                                (5) 2 LT                               (5) 5 LT                                       (10) 5 LT                                                          (1) 1 LT                              (15) 15 LT                                    (0) 0 LT
      (345) 660 TH                                                         (345) 660 TH                                                            (340) 660 TH                           (335) 655 TH                                     (330) 655 TH                                                     (335) 665 TH                             (315) 655 TH                               (345) 740 TH




17. Hwy 126 @ Lake Side Dr.                                    18.              Hwy 126 @ Central Rd.                              19.              Hwy 126 @ Fisher Rd.              20. Hwy 126 @ Richmond St.                     21. Hwy 126 @ Ken Neilsen Rd.                                      22.   Hwy 126 @ Green Hill Rd.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20 (50)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 60 (50)
                                                                                                                                                        40 (100)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5 (35)
             5 (0)
             0 (0)
             5 (0)




                                                                                      0 (2)
                                                                                      0 (0)
                                                                                      0 (2)




                                                                                                                                                                                                0 (0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                5 (0)
                                                                                                                                                        2 (2)


                                               RT 0 (5)                                                             RT 0 (2)                                                                                                                                                                                                       RT 30 (60)
             RT TH LT                                                                 RT TH LT                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RT TH LT
                                               TH 210 (765)                                                         TH 215 (750)                        RT LT          RT 0 (5)                 RT LT                 RT 1 (0)                                  TH 190 (790)                                                       TH 185 (775)
                                               LT 0 (1)                                                             LT 25 (130)                                        TH 195 (790)                                   TH 195 (795)                              LT 0 (5)                                                           LT 25 (105)

     (0) 2 LT                                                       (2) 0 LT                                                                        (40) 60 LT                                                                         (370) 815 TH                                                       (20) 25 LT
                                                               (330) 740 TH                                                                                                                (0) 0 LT                                         (0) 1 RT                                                    (350) 800 TH
(345) 745 TH                                                                                                    LT TH RT                          (370) 815 TH                                                                                                  LT RT                                                         LT TH RT
                                           LT TH RT              (10) 10 RT                                                                                                           (365) 815 TH                                                                                                           (5) 2 RT
     (0) 0 RT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (0) 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (2) 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (5) 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (20) 35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (50) 125
                                                                                                                  (15) 5
                                                                                                                    (0) 0
                                                                                                                (60) 125
                                           (0) 0
                                           (0) 0
                                           (1) 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LEGEND
                      TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                       JEANS RD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 00 - Existing Study Intersection                        - Driveway
                                                                                                                                                                                                          FISHER RD
                                                                                                       CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - Lane Configuration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - Stop Sign




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              00 (00) - Average Annual AM (PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volume
                                                                                         ELLMAKER RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - Traffic Signal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LT TH RT - Volume Turn Movement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Left Thru Right
                                          JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                                            GOBLE LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21
                                                                                                                                                                                                             19         20
                                                               1                              15                             16 17                18
       BROADWAY                          AVE                                                                                                                                                                                 KEN NIELSEN RD                             22
                                                                                       Driveways (#2 - #14)
             5TH ST




                                                               HUSTON RD
    8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LA PORTE DR
                                                                                       Numbering from West to East                                                                                                                                                                CROW RD                                                                                                                       Figure 6.16
                                         BOLTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2011 AVERAGE ANNUAL PEAK HOUR
                                                                                                                                     CENTRAL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W RD



                                        CHENEY DR                                                                                                        CANTRELL RD                                                     CANTRELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TRAFFIC VOLUMES, LANE GEOMETRY,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
                                                                           BIGGS RD




                                                                                                                     PERKINS RD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NO SCALE
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




The operating performaQFHRIWKHVWXG\LQWHUVHFWLRQVZHUHHYDOXDWHGXVLQJ6\QFKURVRIWZDUH
which employs methodology from the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual. The traffic volumes, traffic
control, and lane configurations shown in Figure 6.15 and Figure 6.16 were used in the analysis.
Table 6.10 (30th highest hour) and Table 6.11 (average annual weekday peak hours) provide the
volume-to-capacity ratios for the public intersections (both signalized and unsignalized) as well as
the private driveways located between Huston Road and Ellmaker Road. As shown, all intersections
and driveways meet applicable mobility standards for both peak periods and under 30th HV and
average annual peak hour traffic conditions. The only intersection approaching the mobility standard
is OR 126W/Green Hill Road, which the eastern most intersection, is the only signalized
intersection, and is the only intersection inside the Eugene UGB.

Turn Lane Needs
For most of its length through the study corridor, OR 126W is a two-lane roadway; however, there
are multiple intersections where OR 126W has turn lanes. At intersections where turn lanes do not
FXUUHQWO\H[LVWDSSOLFDEOHFULWHULDIURP2'27·V$30ZHUHFRQVLGHUHGWRGHWHUPLQHZKHWKHU
additional left- and right- turn lanes are recommended.

Due to the high peak hour traffic volumes and travel speeds (55 mph) on OR 126W, the ODOT
criteria indicate that left-turn lanes are needed at movements where volumes exceed ten left-turning
vehicles during the 30th highest hour. Table 6.12 lists the left-turn lane analysis results for the study
intersections that do not currently have left-turn lanes. While the ten-vehicle threshold is not met for
any of the study intersections, the ODOT criteria do also indicate that left-turn lanes would be
beneficial and may be considered at these locations due to the higher travel speeds and traffic
volumes.




    108    Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                       OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



Table 6.10 Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance 30th highest hour
                                                 Mobility Standardb                  30th Highest Hour (v/c Ratio)c,d
             Intersectiona
                                              Mainline              Side Street       Mainline               Side Street
                                                           Signalized
 (22) OR 126W/Green Hill Rd                              0.80 v/c                                   0.79
                                                         Unsignalized
 (1) OR 126W/Huston Rd                        0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c         0.42 (WB-T)           0.31 (NB-LTR)
 (15) OR 126W/Ellmaker Rd                     0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c         0.49 (WB-T)           0.23 (SB-LR)
 (16) OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr                   0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.56 (WB-TR)           0.00 (SB-LR)
 (17) OR 126W/Lake Side Dr                    0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c       0.00 (WB-LTR)           0.00 (NB-LTR)
 (18) OR 126W/Central Rd                      0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.56 (WB-TR)           0.48 (NB-LTR)
 (19) OR 126W/Fisher Rd                       0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.57 (WB-TR)           0.42 (SB-LR)
 (20) OR 126W/Richmond St                     0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.59 (WB-TR)           0.00 (SB-LR)
 (21) OR 126W/Ken Nielsen Rd                  0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.28 (EB-TR)           0.00 (NB-LR)
                                                           Driveways
 (2) OR 126W/Driveway 1                       0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.52 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)
 (3) OR 126W/Driveway 2                       0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.52 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)
 (4) OR 126W/Driveway 3                       0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.51 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
 (5) OR 126W/Driveway 4                       0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.51 (WB-TR)           0.00 (SB-LR)
 (6) OR 126W/Driveway 5                       0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.51 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)
 (7) OR 126W/Driveway 6                       0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.51 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)
 (8) OR 126W/Driveway 7                       0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.51 (WB-TR)           0.03 (SB-LR)
 (9) OR 126W/Driveway 8                       0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.51 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)
 (10) OR 126W/Driveway 9                      0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.51 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)
 (11) OR 126W/Driveway 10                     0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.50 (WB-TR)           0.03 (SB-LR)
 (12) OR 126W/Driveway 11                     0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.50 (WB-TR)           0.06 (SB-LR)
 (13) OR 126W/Driveway 12                     0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.50 (WB-TR)           0.07 (SB-LR)
 (14) OR 126W/Driveway 13                     0.70 v/c              0.80 v/c        0.50 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)
 a Numbers   correspond with Figure 6.15.
 b Mobility standards apply to full signalized intersections or to worst mainline and side street movements of unsignalized
 intersections and driveways.
 c The specific movements are identified in parenthesis. There are four approaches (NB = Northbound, SB = Southbound, EB =

 Eastbound, WB = Westbound) and three movements (L = Left, T = Through, R = Right). When approach lanes serve more than
 one movement (i.e., shared lanes), both movements are listed.
 d Bold Shaded values do not meet mobility standards.




                             February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report               109
    OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


    Table 6.11. Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance Average Annual Weekday Peak
                                        Mobility Standardb                     A.M. Peak Hour                             P.M. Peak Hour
         Intersectiona
                                      Mainline       Side Street         Mainline             Side Street           Mainline               Side Street
                                                                       Signalized
(22) OR 126W/Green Hill Rd                     0.80 v/c                               0.70                                        0.67
                                                                     Unsignalized
(1) OR 126W/Huston Rd                 0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c          0.36 (EB-T)         0.56 (NB-LTR)          0.35 (WB-T)            0.22 (NB-LTR)
(15) OR 126W/Ellmaker Rd              0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c          0.48 (EB-T)           0.49 (SB-LR)         0.42 (WB-T)            0.16 (SB-LR)
(16) OR 126W/Shady Rest               0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.16 (WB-TR)           0.00 (SB-LR)        0.48 (WB-TR)            0.00 (SB-LR)
(17) OR 126W/Lake Side Dr             0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.00 (WB-TR)           0.04 (SB-LTR)       0.00 (WB-LTR)           0.00 (NB-LTR)
(18) OR 126W/Central Rd               0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c          0.54 (EB-T)         0.51 (NB-LTR)         0.48 (WB-TR)            0.26 (NB-LTR)
(19) OR 126W/Fisher Rd                0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c          0.59 (EB-T)           0.08 (SB-LR)        0.49 (WB-TR)            0.30 (SB-LR)
(20) OR 126W/Richmond St              0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.14 (WB-TR)           0.03 (SB-LR)        0.50 (WB-TR)            0.00 (SB-LR)
(21) OR 126W/Ken Nielsen              0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.56 (EB-TR)           0.02 (NB-LR)         0.24 (EB-TR)           0.00 (NB-LR)
                                                                      Driveways
(2) OR 126W/Driveway 1                0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.17 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)        0.44 (WB-TR)            0.01 (SB-LR)
(3) OR 126W/Driveway 2                0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.17 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)        0.44 (WB-TR)            0.01 (SB-LR)
(4) OR 126W/Driveway 3                0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.17 (WB-TR)           0.00 (SB-LR)        0.44 (WB-TR)            0.02 (SB-LR)
(5) OR 126W/Driveway 4                0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.17 (WB-TR)           0.00 (SB-LR)        0.44 (WB-TR)            0.00 (SB-LR)
(6) OR 126W/Driveway 5                0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.17 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)        0.43 (WB-TR)            0.01 (SB-LR)
(7) OR 126W/Driveway 6                0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.17 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)        0.44 (WB-TR)            0.01 (SB-LR)
(8) OR 126W/Driveway 7                0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.17 (WB-TR)           0.03 (SB-LR)        0.44 (WB-TR)            0.03 (SB-LR)
(9) OR 126W/Driveway 8                0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.17 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)        0.44 (WB-TR)            0.01 (SB-LR)
(10) OR 126W/Driveway 9               0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.17 (WB-TR)           0.00 (SB-LR)        0.44 (WB-TR)            0.01 (SB-LR)
(11) OR 126W/Driveway 10              0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.17 (WB-TR)           0.00 (SB-LR)        0.43 (WB-TR)            0.03 (SB-LR)
(12) OR 126W/Driveway 11              0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.17 (WB-TR)           0.04 (SB-LR)        0.43 (WB-TR)            0.04 (SB-LR)
(13) OR 126W/Driveway 12              0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.16 (WB-TR)           0.08 (SB-LR)        0.43 (WB-TR)            0.05 (SB-LR)
(14) OR 126W/Driveway 13              0.70 v/c       0.80 v/c         0.16 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)        0.43 (WB-TR)            0.00 (SB-LR)
a Numbers   correspond with Figure 6.14.
b Mobility standards apply to full signalized intersections or to worst mainline and side street movements of unsignalized intersections and driveways.
c The specific movements are identified in parenthesis. There are four approaches (NB = Northbound, SB = Southbound, EB = Eastbound, WB =

Westbound) and three movements (L = Left, T = Through, R = Right). When approach lanes serve more than one movement (i.e., shared lanes),
both movements are listed.
d Bold Shaded values do not meet mobility standards.




        110    Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                       OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Table 6.12. Existing Left-Turn Lane Criteria (Intersections without Left-Turn Lanes)
                                                        Left-Turn Vehicles
                                                                                          Criteria      Recommended
        Intersection              Movement            ODOT
                                                                      Turn Volume          Met?         Storage Length
                                                     Threshold
 OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr               EB Left             10                  0           Considera               -
 OR 126W/Lake Side Dr                EB Left             10                  0           Considera               -
 OR 126W/Richmond St                 EB Left             10                  0           Considera               -
 OR 126W/Ken Nielson Rd             WB Left              10                  5           Considera               -
 aThrough volumes and speeds are sufficiently high that even though there are less than ten turning vehicles, careful
 consideration be given to installing a left-turn lane due to the increased potential for accidents in the through lanes.


Left-turn lane analysis was also performed for the 13 driveways between Huston and Ellmaker
Roads and is provided in the appendix to Technical Memorandum #2 (DKS, 2011). Because two of
the driveways (i.e., Driveways 10 and 12, which are approximately 230 feet and 720 feet, respectively,
west of Ellmaker Road) have more than ten vehicles making left-turn movements, they both meet
the turn-lane criteria. Both of these driveways are along the section of OR 126W where it widens to
accommodate the eastbound left-turn lane onto Ellmaker Road. Therefore, OR 126W is sufficiently
wide to accommodate left-turn lanes at both driveways; however, current striping does not support
the use of the center median/lane for vehicle storage at these driveways. Specifically, the eastbound
left-turn lane for Ellmaker Road extends beyond Driveway 12, and there is a striped center median
(i.e., two double-yellow lines) that extends farther west beyond Driveway 10.

Right-turn lane analysis was performed for the study intersections that do not currently have
standard right-turn lanes. Due to the high traffic volumes and travel speeds (55 mph) on OR 126W,
the ODOT criteria indicate that right-turn lanes are needed at movements where volumes exceed
approximately 20 right-turning vehicles during the 30th highest hour. Table 6.13 lists right-turn lane
analysis results. The only location where the right-turn lane criteria are met is at the westbound
right-turn movement at Ellmaker Road. This location currently has a flared approach and large turn
radius that may partially serve as a right-turn lane, but it is recommended that a standard right-turn
lane be provided.




                            February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                 111
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



Table 6.13 Existing Right-Turn Lane Criteria (Intersections without Right-Turn Lanes)
                                                               Right-Turn Vehicles                  Criteria
           Intersection             Movement
                                                      ODOT Threshold          Turn Volume            Met?
 OR 126W/Ellmaker Rd                 WB Right                20                    125                Yes
 OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr               WB Right                20                      0                No
 OR 126W/Lake Side Dr                WB Right                20                      5                No
                                     EB Right                28                     10                No
 OR 126W/Central Rd
                                     WB Right                20                      2                No
 OR 126W/Fisher Rd                   WB Right                20                      5                No
 OR 126W/Richmond St                 WB Right                20                      0                No
 OR 126W/Ken Nielson Rd              EB Right                25                      0                No



Collision Analysis
Collision analysis was performed for the OR 126W study corridor using collision records provided
by the ODOT Crash Analysis and Reporting Unit. The past 16 years of data (i.e., 1994 to 2009) were
first reviewed to identify long-term trends as well as fatalities and pedestrian/bicycle collisions.
Then, collision rates were analyzed for the most recent five years of available data (i.e., 2005 through
2009), consistent with ODOT standard methodology.

Between January 1, 1994, and December 31, 2009, 310 collisions were recorded on OR 126W
between Huston and Green Hill Roads. Therefore, over the last 16 years this six mile section of
highway has averaged approximately 20 collisions per year. Eight of these collisions resulted in
fatalities and 22 resulted in debilitating injuries (i.e., an average of two fatalities or debilitating injuries
per year). Nearly half of the recorded collisions resulted in injuries, with two of these collisions
involving pedestrians and three of them involving bicyclists; the bicycle and pedestrian collisions
occurred near Ellmaker Road, Central Road, the scenic viewpoint between these two roads, and
between Central and Fisher Roads.

Another helpful measure for identifying collision trends is the five-year rolling average. Figure 6.17
shows the five-year rolling average for total collisions and fatalities/disabling injuries per year
relative to the vehicle-miles traveled along the 6-mile corridor. While vehicle-miles traveled has been
relatively unchanged at approximately 80,000 vehicle-miles per day, the average number of collisions
has been increasing since 2002 from a low of 13.2 collisions per year to a current high of 24.8
collisions per year. The average number of fatalities or debilitating injuries has been fairly steady




     112    Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


between 1.8 and 3.0 fatalities or debilitating injuries per year.

Figure 6.17. OR 126W Collisions Relative to Vehicle-Miles Traveled (Five Year Rolling Average)




                                                                                                          Vehicle-Miles Traveled
Figure 6.18 shows how the 310 collisions are distributed along the study corridor and also identifies
the collision severity. As shown, five of the eight fatal collisions occurred in the eastern third of the
study corridor. This same segment (i.e., from Green Hill to Fisher Roads) also has a higher
proportion of all collisions on the study corridor, with a particular spike in injury collisions near
Green Hill and Fisher Roads. There are also spikes in collisions at Central, Ellmaker, and Huston
Roads. These are expected locations due to the additional turning movements that occur at these
locations. In addition, because of citizen-reported collision information in Oregon, some ODOT
collision records only specify the general milepoint; therefore, there appear to be spikes at these
locations, but it is likely that these collisions should be more evenly distributed throughout the
milepoint.




                         February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   113
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Figure 6.18. Collision Locations (1994 to 2009)




Collision rates were also estimated for OR 126W, but only the past five years of collision data were
evaluated due to changing traffic characteristics over time and to allow a comparison of collision
rates on similar facilities throughout the State of Oregon. Table 6.14 lists the average collision rate
for OR 126W between Veneta and Eugene, which is slightly higher than that of other similar
highways in Oregon. The table also indicates that the average fatality and debilitating injury rate is
lower than other similar highways in Oregon. However, as shown previously in Figure 6.19, the total
number of collisions on OR 126W have been increasing since 2002. This is the opposite trend of the
average collision rate for the state, which has been steadily dropping during the same time period.
Another important item of note is that this segment of OR 126W does not currently have any top
five or ten percent ODOT Safety Priority Index System (SPIS) locations identified (for the 2009
SPIS, which is based on collisions from 2007 to 2009). However, the intersection of OR
126W/Green Hill Road has been identified as a top 15% SPIS site.




    114    Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Table 6.14. OR 126W Collision Rates Compared with Statewide Averages (2005 to 2009)
                                                                                   Fatal/Debilitating Injury
                      Facility                       Total Collision Ratea,b
                                                                                           Ratea,b
 OR 126W between Veneta and Eugene                   0.82 per million VMT       5.93 per 100 million VMT
 Oregon Principal Arterials (Statewide Average)      0.67 per million VMT       8.44 per 100 million VMT
 a   Collision Rate = (collisions*1,000,000)/(years*365*segment length*AADT)
 b   VMT = Vehicle Miles Traveled


Additional breakdowns of collisions were performed to evaluate the severity and type of collisions
that occurred on the study corridor. Table 6.15 provides a breakdown by severity of the 124
collisions reported between 2005 and 2009. Two of the collisions were fatalities, and over half
resulted in injuries.

Table 6.15. Collision Severity on OR 126W (2005 to 2009)
                                                 Collisions (by Severity)                             Collisions
     Roadway
                         Fatal            Injury        Property Damage Only           Total           Per year
 OR 126W                   2                63                    59                    124                24.8


The study corridor collisions were also broken down by collision type for further evaluation. Figure
6.19 is a pie chart showing the percent of each type of collision. On the study corridor, more than
60% of the collisions were intersection related and were classified as rear-end, angle, or turning-
movement collisions. The locations of the collisions (broken down by collision type) are provided in
the appendix to Technical Memorandum #2 (DKS, 2011)(Appendix B).

Another important consideration for the OR 126W study corridor is the effect that passing
maneuvers have on corridor safety. While this information is not directly identified in the collision
data, the collision records do indicate whether the driver drove left of the centerline (five collisions
between 2005 and 2009) or performed improper overtaking (two collisions); these seven collisions
comprise six percent of the total 124 collisions and include a fatality.




                               February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report    115
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Figure 6.19. OR 126W Collision Types (2005 to 2009)




Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities and Activity
As previously discussed, the segment of OR 126W between Huston Road and Green Hill Road is a
rural corridor with no sidewalks or designated bicycle lanes and with paved shoulders that range
from four to ten feet wide. These narrow shoulders force cyclists to travel immediately adjacent to
and often on the edge of the vehicular travel lane.

Some expected multi-modal destinations include the county park (Perkins Peninsula County Park)
located approximately two miles east of the Veneta city limits, the Fern Ridge Lake, and transit stops
long the corridor. Pedestrian and bicycle traffic recorded during the weekday a.m. and p.m. peak
motor vehicular periods are shown in Figure 6.20. As shown, few pedestrians and no bicyclists were
observed during these periods.




    116    Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Figure 6.20. Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities and Activity on OR 126W




Transit Service
Lane Transit District (LTD) provides public transit service between the Eugene-Springfield area and
Veneta. LTD Route 93 route extends from Eugene Station on the east to West Lane Shopping
Center in Veneta on the west, and Eugene Station has connections to downtown Eugene. Figure
6.21 shows Route 93, the locations of the bus stops, and the average weekday ons and offs that were
collected during the month of May 2011.

Table 6.16 lists the current Route 93 transit service. There are eight regularly scheduled weekday
trips beginning at approximately 7:00 am and ending at 6:00 pm. There are two regularly scheduled
Saturday trips. Productivity on rural routes is measured in terms of the number of customer
ERDUGLQJVSHUURXQGWULS/7'·VFXUUHQWVWDQGDUGLVERDUGLQJVSHUWULS Route 93 averages 42
boardings per trip within the project study area. The greatest activity occurs in the vicinity of the OR
126W/Elmaker Road intersection, though most bus stop locations have an average of one or two
daily boardings and alightings (i.e., ons and offs).

Table 6.16. Route 93 (Veneta) Transit Service
        Service Period                Hours of Operation                          Headway
 Monday-Friday
 A.M. Peak Period                        6:40 to 11:00 a.m.               30, 60, or 120 min. (4 buses)
 P.M. Peak Period                        1:40 to 7:00 p.m.                  60 or 120 min. (4 buses)
 Saturday
 A.M. Peak Period                        9:30 to 10:40 a.m.                          1 bus
 P.M. Peak Period                        4:50 to 6:00 p.m.                           1 bus




                         February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report      117
      FIGURE
      TRANSIT6.2
               ROUTES  ANDROUTES
                 . TRANSIT BOARDINGS




                                                                                                CHERYL L
                                                                                                           NRAD
                                                                                                                          JEANS RD       ZUMWALT




                                                                    WINTER LN
                                                                                                                                         PARK
RN RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EUGENE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                                            ELLMAKER RD

                                                                                                                          CHUKAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OAK HILL PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FISHER RD
      E   RD
  TTL
                                                                                            WIGGINS
                                             VENETA                                                                                                 PERKINS PENINSULA
                                                                                                                                                          PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GOBLE LN
                                               JEANS RD
                                                                                 WILDWOOD RD
                                                                                                                                                                                            210                                                                                                        JUDY

             BROADWAY                         AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KEN NIELSEN RD                                                                                                                           126                                                                             ED CON
                                                                                                                                   126




                                                                                                                                                             D
                   5TH ST




                                                                                                                                                       RAL R
          8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LA PORTE DR
10TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OAK HILL                                             CROW RD




                                                                                                                                                      CENT
                                                                                HUSTON RD



                                              BOLTON RD        JOSEE


                                             CHENEY DR                                                                                                                  CANTRELL RD                                                                                                                                          CANTRELL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W RD
                                                                                                                                                                                            HALDERSON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CRO
                                                                                             BIGGS RD




                                                                                                                                     PERKINS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FORES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TODD WAY
                            ERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HOPE LN
                                                            INSET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ZEL DELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOTEN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                          Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                            LLY LN
                                                                                                                                                        0        0.25    0.5          1                                                                                               LUTHER LN


            11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2ND ST
                                                                                             FLECK RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WESTWOOD CT
                                              OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FERN MEADOWS LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                           DWAY AVE                                                    E BROADWAY AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LINDSAY LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5TH ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DUNHAM AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RUBY JEAN LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                           6TH ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MCCUTCHEON AVE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HUNTER AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E HUNTER RD
          Legend




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CRYSTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATALIE LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LLAMA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PINE ST
                                              LTD Route 93 Service                                                                       Major Arterial




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3RD ST
                                                                                                                                         Minor Arterial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CO
                                                     Bus Route                                                                                                                                                            WOODLAND AVE                                                                                              CORKY LN

                                                                                                                                         Collector                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DAH
                                              Bus Stops




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LONGWOOD LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ERDMAN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CROSSWOOD LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BOLTON RD                                                                                                                                                                                   JOSEE LN
                                              Average Weekday Boardings                                                                  Local
                                              and Alightings, Average Count
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HEAVENLY LN
                                              May 2011                                                                                   Railroad




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HUSTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JAKE ST
                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STRIKE ST

                                                                                                                                         Urban Growth Boundary                                                                                                   COTTAGE CT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHENEY DR
                                                     2 -5                                                                                City Limit                                                                                                                                                        BERRY LN                                                                                                              E BOLTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RD
                                                     6-9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ERDMAN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TERRITORIAL

                                                                                                                                         Park                                                                                                                                                 CHERRY LN                                                                                                                                                                              MILO RD
                                                     10 - 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BLEK DR                                                                                                                                                                                                        Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OAK ISLAND DR
                                                     >14                                                                           #             Average Daily Ridership                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0                        0.125                             0.25

                                                     no boardings/alightings




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CINNABAR L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EEK DR
                                                                            OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



Rail Facilities and Activity
The Coos Bay Rail Line (CBRL) runs parallel and in close proximity to OR 126W (less than 75 feet
south of highway) for the segment between Huston Road and Richmond Street (approximately 4.5
miles). The rail line has not experienced any activity since 2007 but is scheduled to resume operation
by October 2011. There are presently two gated and four stop controlled railroad crossings along
the OR 126W study corridor. Three of the crossings are along public streets and the remaining three
are along private roads. Figure 6.22 shows the location and a picture of each of the six railroad
crossings.

All of the crossing locations, with the exception of Green Hill Road are within approximately 50 feet
of the edge of the traveled way on OR 126W. At most, this allows for the storage of one or two
vehicles between OR 126W and the railroad crossing. The Green Hill Road crossing is
approximately one-third mile north of OR 126W; however, it is along a higher volume roadway.
Lane County has received approval from the ODOT Rail Division to install a signalized crossing at
the Green Hill Road at-grade railroad crossing.

Future 2035 Conditions
This section summarizes future travel forecasts and needs (including major transportation
constraints and issues) for the OR 126 corridor between Veneta and Eugene, Oregon, and is part of
the Facility Plan. The project study area includes OR 126 and nearby parallel facilities (including
Cantrell and Perkins Roads to the south). This section discusses roadway network deficiencies,
future 2035 traffic operations, access management, transit needs, and pedestrian and bicycle
deficiencies. For more detailed information, please refer to Appendix C: Technical Memorandum
#8, OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan² Future Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis (DKS, 2011).

Roadway Network Deficiencies
The most significant constraints to the roadway network are the Fern Ridge Lake and the Coos Bay
Rail Line (CBRL). Needs and deficiencies along the corridor were addressed, including parallel
facilities and connectivity, livability, access spacing, traffic signal spacing, freight needs, and at-grade
railroad crossings.




                         February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report    119
         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Figure 6.22. Railroad Crossings




        120   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Parallel Facilities and Connectivity
The corridor lacks good parallel facilities (i.e., east-west connection) between Eugene and Veneta.
Having an optional parallel route to OR 126 would provide relief to the area. The current roadway
to the north of the reservoir (Clear Lake Road) is out of direction and does not allow for
intermediate connectivity due to the location of the reservoir. The roadway network to the south can
provide some connection but requires multiple turns and includes sections that are not paved and
that experience flooding during certain times of the year (therefore, this southern network is
currently unreliable). Some key benefits of the roadways to the south are their proximity to OR 126
and the City of Veneta, and connectivity at Central and Huston Roads.

The lack of good parallel routes and connectivity of those routes to OR 126 also impacts emergency
response and incident management. If there is a significant incident (e.g., collision that blocks one or
both travel lanes), then it is difficult to get first responders to the site. In addition, using the
roadways to the south would require roadway classification changes by the County because Perkins
Road is a Rural Minor Collector and Cantrell Road is only a Rural Local Road.

Access Spacing
2'27·VDFFHVVVSDFLQJVWDQGDUGVDUHLGHQWLILHGLQWKH2UHJRQ+LJKZD\3ODQ)RU25
which is classified as a Statewide Highway, the applicable spacing standard is 1,320 feet (from center
of access to center of access on the same side of the roadway) due to the 55 miles per hour (mph)
posted speed limit.

Figure 6.23 shows the access locations along the OR 126 study corridor. In addition, Table 6.17 lists
the access conditions for the OR 126 study corridor for various segments of the study corridor. For
the westernmost section of the study corridor (i.e., the 0.59 miles between Huston and Ellmaker
Roads), there are multiple, closely spaced driveways. The majority of these driveways provide access
to businesses, with some having modest p.m. peak hour volumes. All of these driveways were
included in the intersection operations analysis documented previously. The remaining section of
corridor (i.e., the 5.33 miles between Ellmaker and Green Hill Roads) is more rural and has fewer
accesses, with most driveways providing access to residences.




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   121
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Figure 6.23. Access Locations




Table 6.17. OR 126 Accesses
                                  Side of                                   Accessesa
           Segment
                                   Road           Streets      Driveways        Total          Average Spacing

 Huston Rd to Ellmaker Rd           North            0             13             13                  220
 (0.59 mi.)                         South            0             0              0                    -

 Ellmaker Rd to Central Rd          North            2             0              2                  1,950
 (1.11 mi.)                         South            0             1              1                  2,930

 Central Rd to Fisher Rd            North            0             8              8                  1,380
 (2.35 mi.)                         South            0             1              1                  6,200

 Fisher Rd to Green Hill Rd         North            3             1              4                  1,970
 (1.87 mi.)                         South            1             5              6                  1,410

 Entire Study Corridor (5.92        North           8b             22            30b                 1,010
 mi.)                               South           2b             7              9b                 3,130
 a Accesses (both public and private) counted separately for north and south sides of OR 126.
 b The four intermediate streets (i.e., Ellmaker Road, the Perkins Peninsula County Park access, and Fisher Road on
 the north and Central Road on the south) were added to these totals because they were not otherwise accounted for.



     122      Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Traffic Signal Spacing
The recommended traffic signal spacing is one-quarter mile or greater between adjacent signals. The
study corridor is approximately six miles long, and the only signalized intersection is at Green Hill
Road, which is on the eastern end of the study corridor. The closest signal to the east of the study
corridor is at Terry Street, which is located approximately one mile east of Green Hill Road. On the
west end of the project study area, the closest traffic signal is just over one mile west of Huston
Road at the Territorial Road intersection. If traffic signals are identified as the future improvement
alternatives for any of the study intersections, then any adjacent signals should meet the
recommended one-quarter-mile spacing.

Freight Needs
OR 126 is an important Freight Route connecting the Springfield-Eugene area to the Oregon coast.
As traffic volumes increase, congestion will increase, which will negatively impact freight travel time
reliability through the corridor. Any improvements along OR 126 should also take into account
trucking needs. One way that ODOT accommodates improved trucking conditions is through the
use of a more stringent mobility standard. If OR 126 was not a Freight Route, then the applicable
mobility standard for the highway would be a v/c ratio of 0.75. However, because it is a freight
route, the applicable standard is a v/c ratio of 0.70 (additional discussion of mobility standards is
provided later in this memorandum).

At-Grade Railroad Crossings
The Coos Bay Rail Line (CBRL) is located just south of OR 126 and runs parallel to the highway.
Currently, there are one to two trains using the track each week; however, the number of daily train
trips is likely to increase. This will increase the safety concerns at the non-signalized at-grade railroad
crossings along the key side-streets (i.e., at Huston Road and Central Road). At these roads, the
CBRL is located less than 50 feet from OR 126. This spacing leaves little room for vehicle queuing
to occur at the stopped approaches to the highway.

Future 2035 Traffic Operations
Future 2035 traffic operations were evaluated for the OR 126 study corridor. The evaluation
included future traffic volume forecasts, intersection operations, turn lane criteria, and two-lane
highway segment analysis.

Future Traffic Volume Forecasts
Future traffic volumes were estimated for the OR 126 study corridor intersections by applying yearly
growth rates to the 2011 existing 30th highest hourly volumes. The primary growth rate applied to the
overall study corridor was 1.5 percent traffic growth per year; however, a 2.3 percent yearly growth rate
was applied to non-corridor movements at the Green Hill Road intersection due to the higher growth
estimates in the West Eugene area. Additional details related to the growth rate calculations are provided
in the appendix to Tech Memo #8 (DKS, 2011)(Appendix C). Figure 6.24 provides the resulting 2035
30th highest hour volume estimates assumed for the future traffic operations analysis.



                         February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   123
1. Hwy 126 @ Huston Rd.                                   2. Driveway 1                                                          3. Driveway 2                               4. Driveway 3                                     5. Driveway 4                                                     6. Driveway 5                                7. Driveway 6                                   8. Driveway 7


                 25

                 15
                 5                              RT 25




                                                                                    1
                                                                                    1




                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5
                 RT TH LT                                                             RT LT                  RT 1                                     RT LT        RT 0                 RT LT                RT 5                             RT LT                     RT 0                                 RT LT            RT 0                       RT LT             RT 5                           RT LT     RT 5
                                                TH 895
                                                LT 195                                                       TH 1115                                               TH 1110                                   TH 1105                                                    TH 1110                                               TH 1105                                      TH 1105                                  TH 1110

             20 LT                                                                 1 LT                                                              0 LT                             0 LT                                                0 LT                                                             0 LT                                        1 LT                                             5 LT
            475 TH                                                               560 TH                                                            560 TH                           560 TH                                              560 TH                                                           560 TH                                      560 TH                                           555 TH
                                            LT TH RT
             25 RT
                                           20
                                            5
                                           70




9. Driveway 8                                             10. Driveway 9                                                      11. Driveway 10                                12. Driveway 11                                   13. Driveway 12                                                   14. Driveway 13                              15. Hwy 126 @ Ellmaker Rd.                      16. Hwy 126 @ Shady Rest Dr.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         50
                                                                                                                                                      15




                                                                                                                                                                                        15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                      5
                      0




                                                                                    1
                                                                                    1




                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                        5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                      RT LT                     RT 1                                  RT LT                  RT 1                                      RT LT       RT 1                  RT LT               RT 15                            RT LT               RT 15                                       RT LT          RT 0                         RT LT            RT 170                         RT LT    RT 0
                                                TH 1110                                                      TH 1110                                               TH 1110                                   TH 1080                                              TH 1075                                                    TH 1090                                       TH 1075                                 TH 1215

               0 LT                                                                0 LT                                                             15 LT                              5 LT                                              20 LT                                                             1 LT                                       25 LT                                             0 LT
             560 TH                                                              560 TH                                                            545 TH                            540 TH                                             525 TH                                                           530 TH                                      505 TH                                           545 TH




17. Hwy 126 @ Lake Side Dr.                               18.              Hwy 126 @ Central Rd.                              19.              Hwy 126 @ Fisher Rd.          20. Hwy 126 @ Richmond St.                        21. Hwy 126 @ Ken Neilsen Rd.                                     22.   Hwy 126 @ Green Hill Rd.
                                                                                                                                                      155




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            85
                                                                                 5
                                                                                 0
                                                                                 5




                                                                                                            RT 5                                                                                                                                                                                                             RT 110
               0
               0
               0




                                                RT 5
                                                                                                                                                      5




                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                        0
               RT TH LT                                                          RT TH LT                                                              RT LT       RT 5                 RT LT                RT 0                                                                                           RT TH LT
                                                TH 1210                                                     TH 1190                                                                                                                                                    TH 1250                                               TH 1230
                                                LT 1                                                        LT 210                                                 TH 1250                                   TH 1265                                                   LT 5                                                  LT 195

              0 LT                                                             5 LT                                                                 60 LT                             0 LT                                              590 TH                                                            35 LT
            545 TH                                                           525 TH                                                                585 TH                           580 TH                                                0 RT               LT RT                                       560 TH
                                           LT TH RT                                                   LT TH RT                                                                                                                                                                                                           LT TH RT
              0 RT                                                            15 RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5 RT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                     25
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                     95




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        85
                                           0
                                           0
                                           1
                      TERRITORIAL HWY




                                                                                                   JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                                              LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00   - Study Intersection                            - Lane Configuration
                                                                                                                                                                                                 FISHER RD
                                                                                                   CHUKAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00 - 30th Highest Hour Traffic Volume
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - Stop Sign




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GREEN HILL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LT TH RT - Volume Turn Movement
                                                                                     ELLMAKER RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - Traffic Signal                  Left Thru Right



                                          JEANS RD                                                                                                                                                                                      GOBLE LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21
                                                                                                                                                                                                    19          20
                                                          1                               15                             16 17                18
      BROADWAY                           AVE                                                                                                                                                                           KEN NIELSEN RD                               22
                                                                                   Driveways (#2 - #14)
             5TH ST




                                                          HUSTON RD
   8TH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LA PORTE DR
                                                                                   Numbering from West to East                                                                                                                                                               CROW RD                                                                                                                           Figure 6.24
                                         BOLTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FUTURE 2035 30TH HIGHEST HOUR
                                                                                                                                 CENTRAL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W RD



                                        CHENEY DR                                                                                                    CANTRELL RD                                                  CANTRELL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRAFFIC VOLUMES, LANE GEOMETRY,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
                                                                      BIGGS RD




                                                                                                                 PERKINS RD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NO SCALE
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Intersection Operations
Future 2035 traffic operations were evaluated for the OR 126 study intersections to identify
potential future capacity-related intersection deficiencies along the corridor. The analysis was
performed for 30th KLJKHVWKRXUFRQGLWLRQVXVLQJ6\QFKURVRIWZDUHZKLFKHPSOR\VPHWKRGRORJ\
from the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual. This analysis was performed in a similar manner as was
done for existing conditions, which are documented previously in Appendix B: Technical
Memorandum #2 (Existing Transportation Conditions). The resulting 2035 future volume-to-
capacity (v/c) ratios for the study intersections are listed in Table 6.18 along with the applicable
mobility standards. As shown, the majority of the public street intersections do not meet mobility
standards, including:
    OR 126/Green Hill Road (signalized intersection does not meet standard)
    OR 126/Huston Road (minor street does not meet standard)
    OR 126/Shady Rest Drive (mainline does not meet standard)
    OR 126/Lake Side Drive (mainline does not meet standard)
    OR 126/Central Road (mainline and minor street do not meet standard)
    OR 126/Fisher Road (mainline and minor street do not meet standard)
    OR 126/Richmond Street (mainline does not meet standard)
    OR 126/Ken Nielsen Road (mainline does not meet standard)

These intersections currently meet mobility standards (i.e., under existing 2011 30th highest hour
conditions), though the signalized OR 126/Green Hill Road intersection was just below the
threshold. Due to the increase in volumes (particularly associated with the increased urbanization of
West Eugene), this intersection is expected to exceed (i.e., not meet) standards. The primary reason
why future operations at the majority of the other intersections are not expected to meet standards is
due to the higher mainline traffic volumes, which reduce available acceptable gaps for both mainline
traffic turning left onto the side streets and side street traffic entering the roadway.

Turn Lane Criteria
For most of its length through the study corridor, OR 126 is a two-lane roadway with no turn lanes;
however, there are multiple intersections where OR 126 has turn lanes. At the remaining locations,
turn lane criteria were considered to determine whether additional turn lanes are recommended.
Both left-turn lane and right-turn lane criteria were evaluated using the applicable ODOT
methodologies identified in the Analysis Procedures Manual (APM).




                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   125
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Table 6.18. Study Intersection Peak Hour Performance
                                             Mobility Standardb              30th Highest Hour (v/c Ratio)c,d
           Intersectiona
                                         Mainline              Side Street      Mainline              Side Street
                                                     Signalized
 (22) OR 126/Green Hill Rd                          0.80 v/c                                 1.04
                                                    Unsignalized
 (1) OR 126/Huston Rd                    0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.55 (WB-T)           0.83 (NB-LTR)
 (15) OR 126/Ellmaker Rd                 0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.67 (WB-T)            0.62 (SB-LR)
 (16) OR 126/Shady Rest Dr               0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c     0.75 (WB-TR)            0.00 (SB-LR)
 (17) OR 126/Lake Side Dr                0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c     0.74 (WB-LTR)          0.00 (NB-LTR)
 (18) OR 126/Central Rd                  0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c     0.74 (WB-TR)           1.30 (NB-LTR)
 (19) OR 126/Fisher Rd                   0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c     0.78 (WB-TR)            0.98 (SB-LR)
 (20) OR 126/Richmond St                 0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c     0.78 (WB-TR)            0.00 (SB-LR)
 (21) OR 126/Ken Nielsen Rd              0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c     0.78 (WB-LT)           0.01 (NB-LTR)
                                                    Driveways
 (2) OR 126/Driveway 1                   0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.69 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
 (3) OR 126/Driveway 2                   0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.69 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
 (4) OR 126/Driveway 3                   0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.69 (WB-TR)           0.03 (SB-LR)
 (5) OR 126/Driveway 4                   0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.69 (WB-TR)           0.00 (SB-LR)
 (6) OR 126/Driveway 5                   0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.68 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
 (7) OR 126/Driveway 6                   0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.69 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
 (8) OR 126/Driveway 7                   0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.69 (WB-TR)           0.06 (SB-LR)
 (9) OR 126/Driveway 8                   0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.69 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
 (10) OR 126/Driveway 9                  0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.69 (WB-TR)           0.02 (SB-LR)
 (11) OR 126/Driveway 10                 0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.68 (WB-TR)           0.07 (SB-LR)
 (12) OR 126/Driveway 11                 0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.68 (WB-TR)           0.12 (SB-LR)
 (13) OR 126/Driveway 12                 0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.67 (WB-TR)           0.14 (SB-LR)
 (14) OR 126/Driveway 13                 0.70 v/c               0.80 v/c      0.67 (WB-TR)           0.01 (SB-LR)
 a Numbers   correspond with Figure 6.24.
 b Mobility standards apply to full signalized intersections or to worst mainline and side street movements of
 unsignalized intersections and driveways.
 c The specific movements are identified in parenthesis. There are four approaches (NB = Northbound, SB =

 Southbound, EB = Eastbound, WB = Westbound) and three movements (L = Left, T = Through, R = Right). When
 approach lanes serve more than one movement (i.e., shared lanes), both movements are listed.
 d Bold Shaded values do not meet mobility standards.




     126     Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                       OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Due to the high peak hour traffic volumes and travel speeds (55 mph) on OR 126, the ODOT
criteria indicate that left-turn lanes are needed at movements where volumes exceed 10 left-turning
vehicles during the 30th highest hour. Table 6.19 lists the left-turn lane analysis results for the study
intersections that do not currently have left-turn lanes. While the 10-vehicle threshold is not met for
any of the study intersections, the ODOT criteria do also indicate that left-turn lanes would be
beneficial and may be considered at these locations due to the higher travel speeds and traffic
volumes.

Table 6.19 2035 Left-Turn Lane Criteria (Intersections without Left-Turn Lanes)
                                                         Left-Turn Vehicles
                                                                                          Criteria       Recommended
         Intersection              Movement           ODOT
                                                                      Turn Volume          Met?          Storage Length
                                                     Threshold
 OR 126W/Shady Rest Dr               EB Left              10                 0            Considera               -
 OR 126W/Lake Side Dr                EB Left              10                 0            Considera               -
 OR 126W/Richmond St                 EB Left              10                 0            Considera               -
 OR 126W/Ken Nielson Rd              WB Left              10                 5            Considera               -
 aThrough volumes and speeds are sufficiently high that even though there are less than 10 turning vehicles, careful
 consideration be given to installing a left-turn lane due to the increased potential for accidents in the through lanes.


Left-turn lane analysis was also performed for the 13 driveways between Huston and Ellmaker
Roads and is provided in the appendix. Because two of the driveways (i.e., Driveways 10 and 12,
which are approximately 230 feet and 720 feet, respectively, west of Ellmaker Road) have more than
10 vehicles making left-turn movements, they both meet the turn-lane criteria. Both of these
driveways are along the section of OR 126 where it widens to accommodate the eastbound left-turn
lane onto Ellmaker Road. Therefore, OR 126 is sufficiently wide to accommodate left-turn lanes at
both driveways; however, current striping does not support the use of the center median/lane for
vehicle storage at these driveways. Specifically, the eastbound left-turn lane for Ellmaker Road
extends beyond Driveway 12, and there is a striped center median (i.e., two double-yellow lines) that
extends farther west beyond Driveway 10. In addition, it is not desirable to provide a continuous
left-turn lane (e.g., two-way left-turn lane) for closely spaced driveways on a high speed facility (such
as where speeds are 55 mph).

Right-turn lane analysis was performed for the study intersections that do not currently have
standard right-turn lanes. Due to the high traffic volumes and travel speeds (55 mph) on OR 126,
the ODOT criteria indicate that right-turn lanes are needed at movements where volumes exceed 20
right-turning vehicles during the 30th highest hour. Table 6.20 lists right-turn lane analysis results.
The only location where the right-turn lane criteria are met is at the westbound right-turn movement
at Ellmaker Road. This location currently has a flared approach and large turn radius that may


                            February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                  127
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


partially serve as a right-turn lane, but it is recommended that a standard right-turn lane be provided.
The eastbound right-turn movement at Central Road is nearing the threshold but is not forecasted
to meet it. Another important consideration related to right-turn lanes is the resulting conflict with
bicycle flow, particularly when there is limited right-of-way.

Table 6.20. 2035 Right-Turn Lane Criteria (Intersections without Right-Turn Lanes)
                                                           Right-Turn Vehicles
          Intersection          Movement                                                 Criteria Met?
                                                 ODOT Threshold           Turn Volume
 OR 126/Ellmaker Rd                 WB Right            20                    170             Yes
 OR 126/Shady Rest Dr               WB Right            20                       0            No
 OR 126/Lake Side Dr                WB Right            20                       5            No
                                    EB Right            20                     15             No
 OR 126/Central Rd
                                    WB Right            20                       5            No
 OR 126/Fisher Rd                   WB Right            20                       5            No
 OR 126/Richmond St                 WB Right            20                       0            No
 OR 126/Ken Nielson Rd              EB Right            20                       0            No


Two-Lane Highway Segment Analysis
Because the study corridor has uninterrupted flow along its entire length (except at the Green Hill
Road traffic signal at the eastern edge of the corridor), two-lane highway segment analysis was
performed to further evaluate operations on the OR 126W study corridor. This analysis was
performed based on 2000 Highway Capacity Manual methodology, which uses geometric and traffic
volume data to determine the volume-to-capacity (v/c) ratio for one travel direction on a given
corridor segment.

Table 6.21 lists the segment operations analysis results under 30th highest hour traffic conditions for
both the 2011 existing and 2035 future horizon years. The results are listed by travel direction for
four corridor segments. Due to the higher westbound volumes during the 30th highest hour, the
westbound v/c ratios are greatest for each segment, and three of the segments exceed the 0.70 v/c
mobility standard that is applicable for the corridor. In addition, the segment v/c ratios are
comparable with the mainline v/c ratios at the principal unsignalized intersections along the corridor
(see mainline OR 126W operations listed in Table 6.18 at the Shady Rest Drive, Central Road,
Fisher Road, Richmond Street intersections).




    128     Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                      OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Table 6.21 OR 126 Segment Operations Analysis Results
                                                                   30th Highest Hour            Percent Time Spent
                                 Travel           Mobility            (v/c Ratio)b                  Followingc
     Segment (Distance)
                                Direction        Standarda
                                                                    2011           2035          2011           2035
 Huston Rd to Ellmaker          Eastbound          0.70 v/c          0.26          0.35             -              -
 Rd (0.59 mi.)
                                Westbound          0.70 v/c          0.52          0.69           78%            85%
 Ellmaker Rd to Central         Eastbound          0.70 v/c          0.25          0.34             -              -
 Rd (1.11 mi.)
                                Westbound          0.70 v/c          0.55          0.76           77%            86%
 Central Rd to Fisher Rd        Eastbound          0.70 v/c          0.27          0.36             -              -
 (2.35 mi.)
                                Westbound          0.70 v/c          0.57          0.78           77%            86%
 Fisher Rd to Green Hill        Eastbound          0.70 v/c          0.27          0.37             -              -
 Rd (1.87 mi.)
                                Westbound          0.70 v/c          0.58          0.79           79%            86%
 a The same ODOT mobility standard applies as
 b Bold Shaded values do not meet mobility standards.
 c Percent time spent following (PTSF) during 30 th Highest Hour only provided for highest direction of travel (i.e.,

 westbound).


Transit Needs
LTD provides public transit service between the Eugene-Springfield area and Veneta via Route 93.
This route focuses on peak weekday commute periods, with limited service during other hours of
the day and on Saturday. None of the transit stops along the project study corridor have additional
facilities (e.g., landing pads, shelters, park-and-ULGHV,QDGGLWLRQ/7'·V5LGH6RXUFHVHUYLFHIRU
those with disabling conditions that prevent them from being able to ride the LTD fixed-route bus
system does not extend to the study corridor and is unlikely to in the future due to cost constraints.

Pedestrian and Bicycle Deficiencies
The segment of OR 126 between Huston Road and Green Hill Road is a rural corridor with no
sidewalks or designated bicycle lanes. Instead, there are narrow paved shoulders that require non-
motorized users to travel immediately adjacent to, and often on the edge of, the vehicular travel lane.
These shoulders are primarily four feet wide, but in some locations widen to ten feet. Some expected
multi-modal destinations along OR 126 include the county park (Perkins Peninsula County Park)
located approximately two miles east of the Veneta city limits, the Fern Ridge Lake, and transit stops
along the corridor. OR 126 is also used as a bike route to the coast.

OR 126 currently has very low bike and pedestrian usage. Even if improved facilities are provided
(e.g., sidewalks, wide shoulders, or striped bike lanes), users would be adjacent to high-speed
highway traffic. Therefore, another option is to provide an alternate parallel pedestrian/bicycle route
to the north or south of OR 126 to separate vehicular and non-vehicular users. Some limitations to



                            February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report             129
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


providing an alternative route are that the existing roads to the south (i.e., Cantrell and Perkins
Roads) include segments of gravel and experience flooding. In addition, there is a moderately steep
hill on the east end near Green Hill Road. The route to the north is significantly out of direction and
requires use of Territorial Road, which also does not have designated bike or pedestrian facilities.

On the east end of the study corridor, there is limited connectivity between OR 126 and the existing
Fern Ridge Path. Any bicycle route along the OR 126 corridor (or an alternate route) should provide
a connection to the Fern Ridge Path in order to tie in to the Eugene bicycle/pedestrian network.
Another important pedestrian/bicycle improvement includes a north-south connection between the
Fern Ridge Path and Clear Lake Road to the north.

At-Grade Railroad Crossing Needs
The Coos Bay Rail Line (CBRL) runs parallel and in close proximity to OR 126 (less than 75 feet
south of highway) for the project study area segment between Huston Road and Richmond Street
(approximately 4.5 miles). Along this stretch of OR 126, there are five at-grade railroad crossings on
the roadways that intersect OR 126. Because the railroad tracks are along a raised earthwork berm,
they have higher elevation than OR 126. To prevent drivers of low clearance vehicles becoming
caught on the tracks, the roadway crossing surface should be at the same plane as the top of the
railroad rails for a distance of 2 feet outside the rails. In addition, the surface of the highway should
not be more than 3 inches higher or lower than the top of the nearest rail at a point 30 feet from the
rail.3 All five of the crossings have a change in vertical elevation between OR 126 and the Coos Bay
Railroad track that exceeds current standards. Therefore, roadway improvements will be needed to
bring the roadway sections adjacent to the at-grade railroad crossings into compliance with
recommended standards.

Other future railroad-related considerations include the potential for increased train activity and
ODOT Rail practice to not allow any new at-grade railroad crossings.

6.14.4. Conclusions
The section discusses specific improvements by transportation mode and overall transportation
alternatives to address capacity needs, connectivity, and safety within the project study area for year
2035 conditions. For more detailed information, please refer to Appendix D: Technical
Memorandum #9, OR 126W Fern Ridge Facility Plan ² Develop and Evaluate Alternatives (DKS,
2011).




    130   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Specific Modal Improvements
Transportation improvement concepts were identified to address the needs of each of the
transportation modes on the OR 126W study corridor. The modes that were considered include
motor vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians, and transit and carpooling.

Motor Vehicle Improvements
Motor vehicle improvements are needed to address safety, access, freight, railroad crossings,
emergency services, and capacity.

Safety
OR 126W is a two-lane rural facility with a posted speed limit of 55 miles per hour and with
shoulders ranging from four to ten feet. The curved geometry of the roadway at the eastern end in
conjunction with rainy or dark conditions could pose a hazard to users of the roadway. This is
especially applicable in locations with more congestion, narrower lanes, and pavement ruts. The
roadway conditions could also be problematic given that existing data revealed vehicles are, at times,
traveling over the posted speed limits (greater than 55 miles per hour) along the corridor.

The only signalized intersection on the study corridor is located on the eastern end at Green Hill
Road (within the City of Eugene UGB). Therefore, vehicles making left or right turns at most other
locations along the highway are stopped in travel lanes, causing queuing and congestion problems.
In addition, 25% of the accidents between 2005 and 2009 occurred during dark conditions, but there
is no clear indication that light levels significantly influenced overall collision trends.

To address the safety concerns of OR 126W, improved signage, striping, and lighting would be
beneficial for users. Given the signalized intersection at Green Hill Road and the curve before the
intersection for eastbound travelers, advanced intersection signs would provide more warning for
drivers. Variable speed signs may also help to reduce speeds to levels that are appropriate and safe
for congested conditions. Given that the highway has a speed limit of 55 miles per hours, speed
limits between 35 to 45 miles per hour may be recommended during congested conditions. Speed
feedback signs would also help drivers to be more aware of their driving habits and the need to
reduce their speeds. Moreover, clearer delineation of the roadways could be provided through
shoulder rumble strips, edge and centerline striping, raised pavement markers, and roadway
restriping to reduce cross-over collision and to provide better delineation and visibility. More street
lighting could prove beneficial, particularly at locations such as transit stops and public street
intersections.

Spot improvements could be made throughout the corridor to improve specific safety issues that
were identified by stakeholders or the collision analysis. A westbound right turn lane is identified as
a need at Ellmaker Road due to the high number of right turning vehicles. This turn lane also meets



                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   131
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


2'27·VDSSOLFDEOHWXUQODQHFUiteria. A westbound left turn lane at Ken Nielsen Road is also
recommended due to the potential conflicts between stopped vehicles on the highway conflicting
with through traffic. Turn lanes are beneficial on OR 126W since it is a two-lane roadway and these
new turn lanes would provide a storage area for turning vehicles. If the roadway allows, left-turn
lanes could also be installed at lower priority locations, such as Shady Rest Drive, Lake Side Road,
and Richmond Street, given that there are high speeds on the highway.

Access
Along the stretch of OR 126W in the study corridor, the greatest concentration of access points is
located at the westernmost section between Huston Road and Ellmaker Road. On this segment,
there are 22 total access points, all of which are located on the north side of the roadway. This
results in an average spacing of 220 feet between access points, but the access spacing standard is
1,320 feet. Over the past five years, the average collision rate for this segment is higher than other
corridor segments; therefore, there appears to be a correlation between access density and the rate of
collision. A more detailed analysis of access spacing and collision rates are provided in the draft
Access Management Plan provided in the appendix to Technical Memorandum #9 (DKS, 2011).
The ultimate goal of access management is to improve traffic flow and safety by reducing conflict
points at intersections and driveways while providing reasonable access for all users. This focus on
access management is implemented through Oregon Access Management Rule (OAR 734-051).
Senate Bill 264 was recently passed by the 2011 Oregon Legislature and will result in some
modification in access management by ODOT, though it does not appear that there will access
spacing standard changes to the OR 126W study corridor. These changes will be effective January
2012 and will also be reflected in OAR 734-051.

Potential mitigation tools and measures to address these access issues include frontage and backage
roads, shared or consolidated access points, inter-parcel circulation, turning restriction, turn lane
installations, and public street connectivity. An Access Management Plan is being prepared in
conjunction with the Facility Plan and a draft is provided in the appendix to Technical
Memorandum #9 (DKS, 2011). This document provides more detailed descriptions of the
mitigation tools listed previously as well as short, medium, and long-range strategies for access
management along the corridor.

Freight
OR 126W is designated as Freight Route by ODOT; therefore, highway modifications to the
roadway should not reduce the through capacity of the highway and should maintain its reliability
and mobility. The mobility standard for the highway is a volume to capacity (v/c) ratio of 0.70,
which is required by ODOT as the goal for future development projects. With upcoming revisions
to ODOT mobility standards that are planned to take affect January 1, 2012, the v/c ratio will
increase to 0.75. The cross-section and other freight-related roadway standards should also continue
to be met. Spot improvements, including the installation of turn lanes and improved railroad
crossings, could also be considered. The installation of a turn lane reduces the potential for accidents

    132   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


in the through lanes by providing a storage area for turning vehicles. These lanes are beneficial for
accommodating trucks as well as passenger vehicles.

Railroad Crossings
For the majority of the project study area corridor (i.e., Huston to Fisher Roads), the Coos Bay Rail
Line is located only fifty feet south of OR 126W*LYHQWKHVWXG\FRUULGRU·VSUR[LPLW\WRWKH
railroad, the five at-grade railroad crossings south of OR 126W can be improved by adjusting grades,
traffic control, and spacing between the tracks and the highway. One option for improving the
grades on the approaches to the at-grade crossings is to raise the level of OR 126W and the adjacent
roadways to be level with the railroad. Crossing gates and flashing lights are recommended for the
side streets to provide adequate warning for vehicles approaching the at-grade railroad crossing.

Another option for improving the safety of the at-grade railroad crossings is to install a traffic signal
at warranted intersections along OR 126W. The northbound approach stop bar would need to be
moved south of the crossing so that it requires vehicles to stop prior to the railroad tracks. This
would eliminate the current safety issue where trucks stopped on this approach hang over the
railroad tracks while they wait for a gap in through traffic. Warrant 9 in the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices (2009 Edition) provides criteria for installing traffic signals near grade
crossings, and it is expected that the Huston Road and Central Road intersections would meet this
warrant under current conditions.

In addition to improvements that specifically address railroad crossing needs, all of the
improvements made on OR 126W should duly consider impacts on the adjacent railroad crossings.
Roadway widening, alignment, signalization, and other improvements, along with the potential
location of a multi-use trail, will be affected by the proximity of the railroad.

Emergency Services
Since OR 126W is a two-lane facility with narrow shoulders, it is unable to efficiently accommodate
emergency vehicles or other vehicles that need to pull off to the side of the road. Therefore,
alternate routes and accesses, wider shoulders, and turn around locations are needed for emergency
vehicles, particularly during incidents. These needs are particularly important on OR 126W due to
the rural nature of the facility and the lack of existing parallel alternate routes.

Recommendations to improve access for emergency vehicles include providing an improved parallel
roadway via Ken Nielsen Road, Cantrell Road, Perkins Road, and other roads that are south of OR
126W to serve as an alternate route. Turnarounds and emergency vehicle pull-offs could also be
constructed on the highway for enforcement staff and emergency medical services. Modifications
could also be made to the roadway geometry and cross section to allow for better access for
emergency vehicles. By widening the shoulders, emergency vehicles would have better access and
areas in which they could park. OR 126W could also be modified into a three or four lane facility to
better accommodate both vehicles and emergency services, though it may require obtaining right-of-


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   133
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


way.

Capacity
According to the 2035 traffic operations analysis completed see section 6.14), multiple intersections
along the corridor are not expected to meet volume to capacity (v/c) standards due to increased
vehicular volumes. These higher mainline traffic volumes reduce available acceptable gaps for both
mainline traffic turning left onto the side streets and side street traffic entering the roadway.
Additional capacity is needed on OR 126W to accommodate higher traffic volumes and support the
continued growth of Veneta and Eugene. Capacity improvements should provide satisfactory travel
conditions between the two cities, to nearby recreational areas, and to the coast. Downtown Veneta
contains a number of business and western Eugene has high development potential. Optional
capacity improvements include TSM, expansion of the existing OR 126W alignment, alternate
routes, and alternate mobility standards (AMS).

Transportation System Management (TSM)
TSM strategies include minor improvements such as speed feedback signs, raised pavement markers,
and rumble strips. Speed feedback signs make drivers more aware of their travel speeds and the need
to drive safely. Raised pavement markers and rumble strips are physical additions to the roadway to
provide better delineation of the roadway and to warn drivers of the needs to reduce their speeds.
Some of these improvements were discussed previously in the safety section of this memorandum.
These measures both improve safety and increase capacity by reducing incidents and maintaining
efficient traffic flow on OR 126W.

Other transportation system management strategies focus on transit ridership and carpooling to
reduce the number of vehicles traveling on OR 126W. LTD Route 93 travels along OR 126W.
Improvements in the bus, pedestrian, and bicycle facilities will encourage higher ridership and
reduce the number of vehicles on the roadway. Fewer vehicles on the roadway will reduce the
congestion and improve the flow of vehicles on the highway. The introduction of additional park-
and-ride lots in Veneta and improved ride-share programs would also help in reducing single
occupancy vehicles. These transit and carpooling improvements are discussed in more detail later in
this memorandum.

Expansion of Existing Alignment
Major improvements could be made to the existing alignment, such as expanding the roadway to
three or four travel lanes. To the east of Green Hill Road at the end of the study corridor, West 11th
Avenue has already been identified as project where it will be upgraded to a five lane urban arterial
with bike lanes. This remains consistent with the addition of one or two more travel lanes on OR
126W.

If OR 126W was widened to three travel lanes, then the third travel lane could be used for
alternating passing lanes or a reversible traffic lane. The alternating passing lanes would consist of


       134   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


various segments of OR 126W with two eastbound lanes and one westbound lane, followed by a
section with one eastbound lane and two westbound lanes. This roadway geometry allows for
increased capacity and safer passing maneuvers in both directions of travel. A reversible travel lane is
another option and would accommodate vehicles traveling eastbound in the morning peak and
westbound in the evening peak. However, a reversible traffic lane would be problematic given the
rural nature of OR 126W and because the lane would have to be highly access controlled to avoid
simultaneous use by eastbound and westbound vehicles.

Alternate Routes
Constraints within the study corridor include the Coos Bay Rail Line to the south of the highway
and the Fern Ridge Reservoir to the north that may make it difficult to expand the existing OR
126W alignment. In order to increase the capacity while improving the safety and efficiency of the
roadway, new parallel alternate routes may be desirable. An alternate route could include the
improvement of existing roadways south of OR 126W, including Perkins, Cantrell, and Ken Nielsen
Roads. Improving the alignment and cross section of these two routes would provide an alternative
route for drivers and emergency vehicles.

Alternate Mobility Standards (AMS)
The current mobility standard for the highway is a volume to capacity (v/c) ratio of 0.70 since OR
126W is a designated freight route on a Statewide highway. With upcoming revisions to ODOT
mobility standards that are planned to take affect January 1, 2012, the v/c ratio will increase to 0.75.
Given the constraints of OR 126W with the Coos Bay Rail Line and the Fern Ridge Lake, it might
be cost prohibitive to make the necessary roadway improvements to attain the mobility standard of
0.75 for the 20-year planning horizon. Alternate mobility standards do not improve capacity, but
could be considered to allow additional congestion from a policy level if supported by the
community. Therefore, they may be a desired element of the overall corridor management and
improvement package. For example, with small improvements of turn lanes for the side streets, all
unsignalized intersections throughout the corridor may be expected to operate at or below a 0.80
v/c ratio; therefore, this may be a more desirable mobility standard if other improvements on the
corridor are infeasible. It would also allow future development to be approved that operates at or
below this new mobility standard.

Bicycles
Within the project study area, OR 126W has paved shoulders ranging from four to ten feet, but
there are no existing striped or signed bike facilities. Bicyclists need a safe and convenient route
between Eugene and Veneta, connection to the Fern Ridge Path, and access to other land uses and
recreational areas along the corridor. The shoulders could be widened to accommodate bicyclists,
but the shoulder widths vary throughout the corridor. Striping could also be used to provide a buffer
bike lane on the shoulder. Another option may be to provide a parallel bike route south of OR
126W; however, roadway improvements would have to be made to Cantrell, Perkins, and Ken
Nielsen Roads since they are not paved in all locations and flooding also occurs. Both of these


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   135
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


roadways are connected to OR 126W via Central Road and Huston Road.

All new bicycle facilities should extend eastward to connect to the Fern Ridge Path since this is an
established bicycle route in West Eugene. This could be done via bike lanes on OR 126W or a multi-
use path. Improved connections between Ed Cone Boulevard (which has bike lanes and connects to
the Fern Ridge Path) and Crow Road (which is a major cycling route) may also be considered. The
extension of the Fern Ridge Path from Royal Avenue to Fern Ridge Reservoir is a project that is
listed with the Central Lane MPO Long-Range Projects. A north-south connection between the
Fern Ridge Path and Clear Lake Road to the north is also advisable.

Pedestrians
OR 126W has paved shoulders ranging from four to ten feet, but there are no existing sidewalks to
accommodate pedestrians. Along the corridor, users need safe access to various pedestrian
generators, such as transit stops and the number of businesses located on the westerly section of the
network between Huston and Ellmaker Roads. LTD provides public transit service between the
Eugene-Springfield area and Veneta on OR 126W via Route 93. Most of these trips occur during the
a.m. and p.m. peak periods on the weekdays, with limited service during other hours of the day and
on Saturdays. Stops within the study corridor include West 11th Avenue and Greenhill Road; OR
126W and Fisher Road; OR 126W and Ellmaker Road; and OR 126W and Huston Road.

Crossing improvements and sidewalks are desirable where there is pedestrian activity, specifically
near the Ellmaker, Central, and Fisher Roads transit stops and the westerly segment of roadway
where there are businesses.

Transit and Carpooling
LTD Route 93 travels along OR 126W and is primarily a commuter bus. Stops are located at West
11th Avenue and Greenhill Road; OR 126W and Fisher Road; OR 126W and Ellmaker Road; and
OR 126W and Huston Road. Improvements to the bus service would help reduce the number of
single occupancy vehicle (SOV) users between Veneta and Eugene.

The transit stops in the corridor do not have amenities, such as bus pullouts, landing pads, shelters,
illumination, or park-and-rides, therefore more amenities should also be included for the buses and
transit users. Bus pullouts along roadways with high posted speeds (greater than 45 miles per hour)
need a 200 foot long segment for buses to effectively and safely pull off of the roadway to stop
(including 60 feet for a bus bay and 140 feet of taper). The bus bay segment must be at least 14 feet
in width, measured from the edge of the travel lane4 and should be constructed of a hard rock
material to support the weight of a bus and avoid causing roadway deterioration. Moreover, a five by
eight feet paved platform adjacent to the stop should be provided to allow for riders of all abilities to
board. Future transit stops should be located on the far side of the intersection traffic signal so that

4
  ODOT  Highway  Design  Manual,  Design  Guidelines  for  Public  Transportation  


    136    Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


the sight distances for right turn movements are not hindered. Also, sidewalks should be
constructed for key routes between stops to allow for pedestrian access to the bus routes. Street
lights would improve pedestrian visibility and safety. The installation of these amenities would create
a sense of place for the bus stops and would make drivers more aware of the presence of pedestrians
in the vicinity of the roadway.

Because of the number of business in downtown Eugene and the development potential of western
Eugene, the introduction of additional or expanded park-and-ride lots in Veneta would further
encourage transit usage since parking lots would be readily available. The City currently has a new
small park-and-ride lot in downtown Veneta. The enhancement of ride-share programs would
further aid in reducing the number of vehicles traveling along OR 126W.

6.15. Utilities

This section discusses the general location of known utilities in the project study area as well as
utility considerations for the project.

6.15.1. Data Sources and Collection
Aerial imagery and project photos were examined to view the visible presence of utility
infrastructure. A driving field tour of the project area was also conducted. Geographic information
system (GIS) data was obtained from Lane Council of Governments showing Bonneville Power
Administration transmission lines and towers.

6.15.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

Federal
The Code of Federal Regulations contains rules related to utilities:
   23 CFR 645A Utility Relocations, Adjustments and Reimbursement
   23 CFR 645B Accommodation of Utilities
   23 CFR 172 Administration of Engineering and Design Related Service Contracts
   48 CFR 31 Contract Cost Principles and Procedures




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   137
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



Utility Relocation and Accommodation on Federal-Aid Highway Projects
This is utility program guidance created by FHWA for highway projects. ODOT refers to this
guidance for Federal-Aid projects.

State
ODOT Right of Way Manual (updated January 2011)
The ODOT ROW Manual is regularly updated to reflect federal and state policy regarding land
acquisitions, appraisals, access rights, utilities, displacements, and relocation procedures.

ODOT Utility Relocation Guide (revised 7/26/2011)
This guide is written for the Region Utility Specialists (RUS), Out-sourced Project Utility
Coordinators (UC) and Local Agency Utility Coordinators (UC) to assist in their execution of the
Oregon Department of Transportation Utility Relocation Program.

Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 734, Division 55
This rule applies to and governs the location, installation, construction, maintenance and use of pole
lines, buried cables, pipe lines, signs, miscellaneous operations upon State Highway right-of-way and
properties under the jurisdiction of the Department of Transportation.

Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 952, Division 1
This establishes the Oregon Utility Notification Center and procedures to follow for any projects
that require excavation.

Regional and Local
Lane Code 15.205 Facility Permits
Lane County requires a facility permit for placement of facilities and development in the County
road right-of-way. This applies to utility placements. Roads under County jurisdiction intersect OR
126W in the project area. If relocation of utilities is necessary within these rights-of-way, a facility
permit would be required from Lane County Public Works.

6.15.3. Findings
Overhead utility lines run along the north side of Cantrell Road and on the south side of Perkins
Road. Approximately 1,000 feet east of Huston Road, the overhead utility lines traverse Perkins
Road and run along its north side to the western project terminus. Overhead utility lines are present
on the north side of OR 126W, but only in the section of highway west of Central Road. Bonneville
Power Administration operates the Lane Substation off of Ken Nielsen Road on the south side of
OR 126W. At this location BPA transmission lines cross over OR 126W and, to the south, these
high-voltage lines span over Cantrell Road. The transportation alternatives are not anticipated to
affect the transmission lines, however, as the towers are set outside the likely prism of road
improvements.


    138   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


The presence and extent of underground utilities is unknown at this time. However, the large-lot
rural residences characteristic of the land south of OR 126W likely have individual septic and water
systems in lieu of being served by community sanitary sewer and water lines.

6.15.4. Conclusions
A Utilities technical report will need to be completed if a modernization alternative is advanced to
the NEPA stage for further consideration and study. At that time, public and private utility records
would be reviewed within the project footprint, including natural gas, electrical, sewer, water,
telecommunications, stormwater, and oil. The presence and general location (vertically and
horizontally) and ownership of the utility would be determined. Based upon the construction
activities likely to occur within a given segment of the alternative, project staff would assess and
document the likelihood that any utilities within the project footprint would need to be relocated.

Any utility relocations that take place in County road right-of-way would require a facility permit
from Lane County Public Works before construction (the same facility permit requirement applies
to any work in the County right-of-way ² e.g. modification of approaches).

6.16. Visual and Aesthetic Resources

This section discusses possible visual and aesthetic impacts and requirements.

6.16.1. Data Sources and Collection
A driving field tour was conducted and the Lane County Comprehensive Plan was reviewed to
determine if any special scenic designations apply to the project area.

6.16.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

Federal
23 Code of Federal Regulation (CFR) Parts 750-752, Federal Highway Administration (FHWA),
"Highway Beautification"
These are the implementing regulations for the Highway Beautification Act of 1965, which was
enacted to provide effective control of outdoor advertising and junkyards, protect public
investment, promote the safety and recreational value of public travel, preserve natural beauty, and
provide landscapes and roadside development reasonably necessary to accommodate the traveling
public.




                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   139
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



23 CFR 771, FHWA, "Environmental Impact and Related Procedures"
These are the implementing regulations for environmental impacts and related policies and
procedures for NEPA to ensure that environmental considerations, such as impacts related to
aesthetics and visual quality, are given due weight in project decision-making.

"Visual Impact Assessment for Highway Projects," FHWA Pub. No. FHWA-HI-88-054
This document provides guidelines and worksheets for assessing visual impacts for highway
projects.

State
Oregon Statewide Planning Goal 5---"Natural Resources, Scenic and Historic Areas, and Open
6SDFHVµ
Oregon's statewide planning goals provide the framework for planning within the state. Goal 5
establishes specific procedures and criteria for protecting natural resources and conserving scenic
and historic areas and open spaces.

ODOT Roadside Development Design Manual
This document provides guidance for assessing visual resource impacts and recommendations for
landscaping and architectural treatments.

Oregon Transportation Plan 2006
The OTP LVWKHVWDWH·VORQJUDQJHPXOWLPRGDOWUDQVSRUWDWLRQSODQDQGRYHUDUFKLQJSROLF\GRFXPHQW
for the statewide transportation system. Goal 4 in the OTP is dedicated to sustainability. Strategy
SURPRWHVWUDQVSRUWDWLRQFRUULGRUGHVLJQWKDW´ILts the physical setting, serves and responds to
the scenic, aesthetic, historic and environmental resources, and maintains safety and mobility.µ

Regional and Local
Lane County Comprehensive Plan
The general purpose of the comprehensive plan is the guiding of the social, economic, and physical
development of the County to best promote public health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity
and general welfare. Goal 5 in the comprehensive plan has policies related to Open Space and Scenic
Areas. Six major areas of outstanding scenic value are identified in Lane County. These areas are
focused in the coastal region and Cascade Range region and do not include the OR 126W project
area.

6.16.3. Findings
While the highway corridor does not have a formal scenic designation, the area is frequented by
recreationalists for activities on Fern Ridge Lake, Perkins Peninsula Park, and the Fern Ridge
Wildlife Area. The terrain is generally flat in the vicinity of the OR 126W alignment, making vertical
changes to the transportation facilities visible to users of adjacent recreation lands. On the parallel
facility, there are steeper slopes on the eastern portion of Cantrell Road. Fern Ridge Lake is largely


    140   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


not visible from the proposed parallel facility route. The project area has wetland and forested
habitat associated with the Wildlife Area as well as agricultural lands. On the approaches to Veneta
and Eugene, the highway begins to have a more urban feel.

6.16.4. Conclusions
A visual quality and aesthetics assessment would be needed if transportation improvement
alternatives are advanced for further study in the NEPA phase of the project. To the degree that
physical changes take place as a result of project alternatives, data collection and assessment
methods for the visual quality and aesthetics evaluation will follow the FHWA visual quality and
aesthetics assessment methodology. FHWA developed this assessment methodology on behalf of
communities adjacent to proposed transportation projects as a way to adequately and objectively
consider the potential visual impacts resulting from highway projects.

6.17. Hydrology and Hydraulics

Water quality, stormwater, and floodplain issues are discussed in this section.

6.17.1. Data Sources and Collection
Applicable regulatory requirements were reviewed and Federal Emergency Management Agency
()(0$·V) Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) data was imported into GIS for analysis.

6.17.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

Federal
Federal Emergency Management Act (FEMA) Regulations (CFR Title 44 Ch. 1)
The FEMA Floodway standards include the policies and procedures associated with the initial
establishment of the regulatory floodway based on a maximum allowable one (1) foot rise in the
Base Flood Elevation (BFE) and the procedures for permitting development within the regulatory
floodway after it has been established. The flood fringe are lands outside the floodway that are at or
below the BFE that store, but do not effectively convey floodwaters. Lands that compose the flood
fringe will be inundated during a 1% chance flood event but, due to physical characteristics of the
floodplain, convey shallow, slower moving waters.

Clean Water Act (CWA) (in Federal Water Pollution Control Act), 33 USC 1251-1387
The CWA requires states to set water quality standards for all contaminants in surface waters, based
on the "beneficial" or "designated" uses for the water body, and makes it unlawful for any person to
discharge any pollutant from a point source into navigable waters unless a permit was obtained



                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   141
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


under its provisions. It also recognizes the need to address the problems posed by nonpoint source
pollution.

National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permits
Section 402 prescribes the process for obtaining a NPDES permit. The United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requires NPDES permits for construction activities as well
as for municipalities of a certain size that discharge stormwater into waterways. In Oregon, the
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) administers these permits, as discussed in
more detail below in the section on state regulations.

Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), 42 USC 300f to 300j-26
The SDWA requires many actions to protect drinking water and its sources, including rivers, lakes,
reservoirs, springs, and groundwater wells. SDWA authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) to set national health-based standards for drinking water to protect against both naturally-
occurring and human-made contaminants. Oregon's drinking water program provides direct
oversight of drinking water systems. This law would apply only if infiltration basins or Underground
Injection Control (UIC) measures were incorporated into the preferred project design. Local codes
encourage infiltration of treated stormwater where feasible.

Clean Water Act Section 303(d)
This section requires states to develop a list of water quality limited segments. These are waters that
do not meet water quality standards, even after point sources of pollution have installed the
minimum required levels of pollution control technology. The law requires states to establish
priority rankings for water on the lists and develop action plans, referred to as Total Maximum Daily
Loads (TMDL), to improve water quality. TMDLs identify the pollutant load reductions that are
necessary from point and nonpoint sources and guide implementation work by federal, state, tribal,
territorial, and local water quality protection programs. In Oregon, DEQ develops Section 303(d)
lists for approval by EPA.

Clean Water Act Section 401 Water Quality Certification
This section requires an applicant for a federal license or permit who conducts an activity that may
result in a discharge to waters of the state or U.S. to also obtain a certification that the activity
complies with state water quality requirements and standards. Applicants in Oregon submit a Joint
Permit Application to the USACE, which then forwards the application to the certifying state
agency, DEQ. DEQ then determines whether or not to certify that the project meets state water
quality standards and does not endanger waters of the state, U.S., or wetlands.

United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) Fern Ridge Shoreline Management Plan (1988,
updated November 1997)
The Shoreline Management Plan provides a framework for managing shoreline resources at Fern
5LGJH/DNH,WVSULPDU\REMHFWLYHLVWR´DFKLHYHDEDODQFHEHWZHHQSXEOLFXVHHQMR\PHQWRISURMHFW


    142   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


benefits and long-WHUPUHVRXUFHSURWHFWLRQµ7KHSODQZDVSUHSDUHGE\WKH$UP\&RUSVRI
Engineers, which has management jurisdiction over the lake.

Facilities constructed within the purview of the Shoreline Management Plan require a shoreline use
permit. There is no mention of transportation facilities or acquisition of public right-of-way for
roads. The Plan primarily addresses provision of recreational facilities such as boat moorages and
duck blinds. Any encroachment on Fern Ridge Lake would require coordination with the USACE
and determination of processes that may apply to expansion of transportation facilities.

State
Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS), 196.795 to 196.990, Oregon's Removal-Fill Law
Removal or fill within jurisdictional wetlands, waters of the state, or fish habitat requires a Removal-
Fill permit from the Oregon DSL. DSL requires a wetland delineation, conceptual mitigation plan,
and stormwater control plan as part of the permit application.

Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR) 340-045-0005 to 340-045-0080, Department of
Environmental Quality, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) and Water
Pollution Control Facilities (WPCF) Permits
In Oregon, DEQ enforces NPDES permits and authorizes Section 401 Water Quality Certifications.
An NPDES General Construction 1200-C Stormwater Permit is mandatory for construction
activities on sites covering more than 1 acre. This permit requires a Temporary Erosion and
6HGLPHQW&RQWURO3ODQ7(6&3'(4·VZHEVLWHSURYLGHVJXLGDQFHRQVHOHFWLQJPHWKRGVRI
erosion and sediment control.

As part of the Section 401 Water Quality Certification process, applicants may be required to
incorporate protective measures into their construction and operational plans. These measures may
include bank stabilization, treatment of stormwater runoff, spill protection, and fish and wildlife
protection.

ORS Chapter 468B, Water Quality
This statute authorizes the Environmental Quality Commission to set water quality standards for
waters of the state. DEQ and Department of Agriculture (USDA) have enforcement authority,
including permitting responsibilities. The issuing authority also is responsible for reviewing proposed
construction documents.

Regional and Local
Lane County Comprehensive Plan
The general purpose of the comprehensive plan is to guide the social, economic, and physical
development of the County to best promote public health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity
and general welfare. The Plan contains water related policies under Goal 5 Water Resources and
under Goal 6 Water Quality. None of these policies specifically address conditions in the OR 126W
project area.


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   143
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


6.17.3. Findings
Fern Ridge Lake is on the north side of OR 126W. The lake is managed by the USACE and was
originally developed as a flood control project. The Fern Ridge Lake Project was authorized by
Congress in the Flood Control Act adopted in June 1938. The authorized purpose of the project is
for flood control, irrigation and navigation. Other purposes, encouraged and developed for collateral
use, are public use, recreation and fish and wildlife management. The project was constructed in
1940 and 1941 and became operational in December of 1941.

Fern Ridge is a wide shallow lake situated on the Long Tom River 23.6 miles above its confluence
with the Willamette River. The total shoreline distance around the lake at a normal full pool of 373.5
feet (mean sea level) is approximately 32 miles. Much of the land inundated by the lake is flat to
gently sloping; thus small changes in pool level greatly alter the total pool area and shoreline
location.

The shoreline around Fern Ridge is characterized by a transition from upland forest to open lowland
prairie to marshland and open water. This transitional vegetation provides valuable wildlife habitat
along most of the undeveloped portions of shoreline. Notable exceptions are where adjacent
development for public and private recreation facilities and flood control structures has occurred
within a few feet of the water edge.

Coyote Creek flows across OR 126W and into the SE portion of the lake. Wetland areas are present
on the north and south sides of OR 126W and are part of the hydrologic regime of the lake.
Potential jurisdictional wetlands are also present on both sides of Perkins and Cantrell Roads. The
FIRM shows the 100-year flood zone (A) in a broad area that crosses the highway and extends to
include drainages to the south across Cantrell and Perkins Roads.

6.17.4. Conclusions
Hydrological issues could vary greatly depending on the type of action proposed, placement of any
recommended improvements, and site specific conditions. It is likely any proposed action
recommending improvements outside of the existing ROW will require best management practices
(BMPs) which minimize impacts to receiving waters (including wetlands) and require permits from
DSL and USACE (see also Wetlands Section 6.18). In addition, ODOT is required to comply with
floodplain management requirements (Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management). Potential
floodplain impacts would include construction of a structure within any part of the floodplain
and/or release of runoff directly to the floodplain.

6.18. Wetlands and Jurisdictional Waters of State and U.S.

This section describes the screening level potential effects of the conceptual alternatives on wetlands
and jurisdictional waters resources.


    144   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


6.18.1. Data Sources and Collection
The section describes data sources and the methods used to collect and evaluate data to determine
wetlands and jurisdictional water resources considerations for the project.

ES&A reviewed existing data and prepared a Biological Resources Plans, Policies, Regulations and
Standards Review Memorandum dated June 8, 2011 (ES&A 2011). ES&A conducted a
reconnaissance-level field survey of the project alternatives on July 14 and July 15, 2011. The
reconnaissance-level field survey identified potential wetland areas and other potentially
jurisdictional waters of the state and U.S. Wetland boundaries were not formally delineated.

6.18.2. Relevant Regulations, Policies and Plans
This section describes the results of reviewing relevant federal, state, and local documents for
relationships, conflicts, and discrepancies within and between documents related to the Corridor
Plan.

Federal
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetland Inventory Data (UFSWS, 1982)
The National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) mapping is generated primarily on the basis of black and
white or color infrared DHULDOSKRWRJUDSK\DWDVFDOHRIZLWKVHOHFWHG´JURXQGWUXWKLQJµRQO\
conducted to confirm interpretations. It is not uncommon to find areas of wetland not delineated on
an NWI map, mainly due to the fact that NWI maps are generated from aerial photography with
limited ground-truthing.

The NWI mapping identifies large areas of wetland throughout portions of the proposed project
corridor, including southern portions of Fern Ridge Lake that extend across OR 126W.

The NWI map identifies two large wetland swaths that extend from north to south across the
project area. The western swath is centrally located between Huston and Central Roads. The
wetlands extend from an area north of Perkins Road to the north side of OR 126W. The widest
portion is at the north end. The second wetland swath is located between Central and Ken Neilson
Roads. The mapped wetland extends from south of Cantrell Road on both sides of Coyote Creek to
the north side of OR 126W, widening as the wetlands extend north.

Wetlands are also mapped along the west side of West Fork Coyote Creek. A few isolated wetlands
are identified east of Ken Neilson Road, located south of OR 126W east of Richmond Street and
near the intersection of Green Hill Road and OR 126W. A significant portion of OR 126W, within
the project area, has wetlands or waterways mapped on both sides of the highway.




                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   145
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



U.S. Department of Agriculture Soil Survey of Lane County, Oregon (NRCS, 2011)
The Soil Survey for Lane County maps six types of hydric soils throughout the project area; Natroy
silty clay loam being the most predominant type. Roughly half of the project corridor is mapped as
having hydric soils.

Fern Ridge Operational Management Plan Section 2.9 ² Shoreline Management (USACE, 1997)
The shoreline has been divided into categories standardized by the USACE nationwide. These
include Limited Development, Public Recreation, Protected Shoreline, and Prohibited Access. The
plan also establishes a permit procedure for shoreline use, including vegetation modification.
Erosion control and bank stabilization objectives may justify the need for vegetation modification.

State
Draft Fern Ridge Wildlife Area Management Plan (ODFW, 2009)
The ODFW Draft Fern Ridge Wildlife Area Management Plan is primarily addressed in the
Biological Resources Review of Plans, Policies, Regulations and Standards Memorandum. However,
the document does address wetland and aquatic habitats along the project corridor, such as wet
prairie, managed impoundments, emergent aquatic, freshwater aquatic, submerged and/or emergent
plants, and seasonal mudflats.

Long Tom Subbasin Fish Management Plan (ODFW, 1992)
The Long Tom Subbasin Fish Management Plan provides policies and objectives for the
management of fishery resources within the subbasin. It provides data pertaining to habitat, water
quality, and fish presence.

Regional and Local
Eugene Local Wetlands Inventory (PHS, Inc., 2005)
Eugene Wetlands Local Wetlands Inventory (LWI) covers only a small portion of the project study
area and does identify a wetland southwest of the intersection of OR 126W and Green Hill Road.

West Eugene Wetland Conservation Plan Inventory (SR, Inc., 1994)
The Eugene Wetland Conservation Plan (EWCP) Inventory covers only a small portion of the
project area. The EWCP idenWLILHVDGHVLJQDWHG´SURWHFWHGµZHWODQGRQWKHHDVWVLGHRI*UHHQ+LOO
Road between Crow Road and OR 126W/West 11th Avenue.

Veneta Local Wetlands Inventory (WS, Inc., 1998)
The Veneta LWI study area boundary covers only a small portion of the project area. The Veneta
LWI does not indicate any wetlands but does identify two small ditches/drainages on the east side
of Huston Road.




    146   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Lane County Zone and Plan Map Viewer (Lane County, 2009)
Lane County mapping shows wetlands identified on the NWI mapping. It also shows numerous
streams and waterways within the project area. There are four named streams within the project
area, which include Coyote Creek, West fork Coyote Creek, Middle Fork Coyote Creek, and Job
Swale Creek.

Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan (Lane County, 2009)
ES&A reviewed applicable sections of the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan (Lane County,
2005). The Flora and Fauna section of Goal 5 addresses riparian lands associated with Class 1
streams. It also addresses protected wetland resources.

Lane County Code Chapter 10 (Zoning) (2007) and Chapter 12 (Comprehensive Plan) (2002)
ES&A reviewed Chapters 10 and 12 of the Lane County Code pertaining to Zoning and the
Comprehensive Plan. The zoning information in Chapter 10 may be relevant to Wetlands and Water
Resources, particularly within the Natural Resource District areas that are mapped within the project
corridor. Certain transportation related activities such as operations, maintenance, and repair are
permitted uses within the Natural Resource District. Chapter 12 provides details on how the County
will implement the Comprehensive Plan and how amendments may be adopted.

City of Veneta Comprehensive Plan (2009) and Land Development Ordinance 493 (2010)
The proposed project corridor extends a short distance into the Urban Growth Boundary and City
Limits of the City of Veneta. The Comprehensive Plan Map identifies an Open Space ² Greenway
Overlay in that area that may be applicable to the proposed project as it pertains to Wetland and
Water Resources. The Land Development Ordinance dictates that the Open Space ² Greenway
Overlay boundary extends 50 feet from the delineated boundary of all significant wetlands.

Eugene-Springfield Metropolitan Area General Plan 2004 Update (Metro Plan 2004)
The proposed project corridor extends a short distance into the Metro Plan boundary. The Metro
Plan map identifies areas of encroachment as Agricultural, Forest Land and Rural Residential areas
that may be applicable to the proposed project as it pertains to Wetland and Water Resources.

6.18.3. Findings
ES&A reviewed existing data and prepared a Biological Resources Plans, Policies, Regulations and
Standards Review Memorandum dated June 8, 2011 (ES&A 2011). ES&A conducted a
reconnaissance-level field survey of the project alternatives on July 14 and July 15, 2011. The
reconnaissance-level field survey identified potential wetland areas and other potentially
jurisdictional waters of the state and U.S. Wetland boundaries were not formally delineated.
Identified potential wetlands and water resources are shown on Figure 6.25.




                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   147
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



Figure 6.25. Potential Wetlands and Water Resources within Project Study Area




Existing Conditions
Existing OR 126W Alignment
Fern Ridge Lake and adjacent wetland areas are located immediately adjacent to OR 126W. These
wetland and water resources are located on both sides of the highway in some places, making
roadway widening very difficult without impacts. The highway also crosses Coyote Creek and
numerous other wetland areas. Wetland and water resources along this alignment include open
water, seasonal mudflats, emergent wetland, shrub-scrub wetland, forested wetland, farmed wetland,
wet prairie, and forested riparian areas.

Southern Route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads extensive riparian and forested wetlands are
located along this alignment where it crosses Coyote Creek. Other wetland and water resources
located along this alignment include emergent wetland, scrub-shrub wetland, forested wetland,
farmed wetland, wet prairie, and several unnamed drainages and their associated riparian areas.

6.18.4. Conclusions
Extensive wetlands and hydric soils are mapped within the project corridor. The available mapping
for the majority of the corridor is NWI, with only small portions of the project corridor at each end
included in LWIs. It is not uncommon to find areas of wetland not delineated on an NWI map,
mainly due to the fact that NWI maps are generated from aerial photography with limited ground-
truthing.


    148   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


A reconnaissance-level field evaluation of wetlands is recommended as part of Phase 1 of the
project. The reconnaissance-level field evaluation will identify potential jurisdictional wetland areas
along the proposed project alternatives to assist in project planning and the evaluation of
alternatives. More detailed wetland assessments will likely be useful as the project moves forward.
More detailed wetland surveys would provide increased accuracy of wetland mapping to quantify
potential impacts associated with project alternatives. Ultimately, formal wetland delineation will
likely be required along the selected alternative to support state and federal permitting.

Existing OR 126W Alignment
The No-Build Alternative meets or exceeds both of the wetlands and water resources-related
criteria. The criteria are met because there would be no new impacts as a result of the No-Build
alternative.

The TSM Alternative may meet both of the wetlands and water resources-related criteria. The
criteria may be met depending on the locations of new TSM.

The Spot Improvement (Multi-use Path DO) Alternative may meet both of the wetlands and water
resources-related criteria. The criteria may be met depending on the locations of spot improvements
and the new multi-use path. This assumes that the multi-use path would only be constructed where
impacts are avoidable, and would not extend the full alignment length.

The Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative and its Design Option do not meet either of the wetlands
and water resources-related criteria because of anticipated expansion of the road footprint. The
widening of OR 126W would impact Fern Ridge Lake and would likely impact other wetlands and
water resources.

The Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative and its Design Option do not meet either of the wetlands
and water resources-related criteria because of anticipated expansion of the road footprint. The
widening of OR 126W would impact Fern Ridge Lake and would likely impact other wetlands and
water resources.

Southern Route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads the Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection
Turning Lanes Alternative meets the ´Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and temporary
impacts to Fern Ridge LakeµFULWHULRQEHFDXVHWKHOR 126Wsouthern route is located away from
Fern Ridge Lake and no direct impacts would be anticipated. 7KH´Avoid and minimize adverse
permanent and temporary impacts to other environmentally sensitive natural resource DUHDVµ
criterion may be met depending on the locations of facility improvement segments and whether
wetland/waters impacts can be avoided.

The Multi-Use Path Alternative meets the ´Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and temporary
impacts to Fern Ridge LakeµFULWHULRQEHFDXVHWKHsouthern route is located away from Fern Ridge


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   149
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Lake and no direct impacts would be anticipated. 7KH´Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and
temporary LPSDFWVWRRWKHUHQYLURQPHQWDOO\VHQVLWLYHQDWXUDOUHVRXUFHDUHDVµcriterion would not be
met because construction of a new multi-use path would likely impact wetlands and water resources
adjacent to the southern route.

6.19. Cumulative Effects

Cumulative impact (40 CFR 1508.7) is the effect to the environment which results from the
incremental impact of the action when added to other past, present, and reasonably foreseeable
future actions regardless of what agency (Federal or non-Federal) or person undertakes such other
actions. Cumulative impacts can result from individually minor but collectively significant actions
taking place over a period of time. To evaluate cumulative impacts, a time frame helps to understand
how human actions have either degraded or protected natural resources and how future actions
might further change the environment.

Regarding the overall wetland regime of the Willamette Valley, agricultural activities and
development have diminished wet prairie habitat by over 99% since pre-European settlement times.
In terms of actions specific to the project area, the Fern Ridge Lake Project was authorized by
Congress in the Flood Control Act adopted in June 1938. The authorized purpose of the project was
for flood control, irrigation and navigation. The project was constructed in 1940 and 1941 and
became operational in December of 1941. Buildings in the project area range from as old as 1900 to
modern day structures. ODFW has also engaged in management activities on its lands associated
with the Fern Ridge Wildlife Area (e.g. plantings).

In terms of possible future actions, the Lane County TSP contains a long-range project list for
proposed improvements to County roads. Projects listed in the project study area include:
    Ellmaker Road ² Rural Modernization
    Jeans Road ² Bike-Ped Facilities
    Huston Road South ² Bike-Ped Facilities
    Bolton Road East ² Bike-Ped Facilities
    Perkins Road ² Bike-Ped Facilities
    Central Road ² Rural Modernization
    Fisher Road ² Rural Modernization
    Green Hill Road ² Urban Standards

Outside Eugene and Veneta, the land use and development code for Lane County applies and
generally precludes intensification of land uses in the project area consistent with the rural land use
designations. Consequently, private development is not anticipated to be a major contributor to
future impacts.




    150   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


6.20. Opportunities and Constraints

Using available GIS data as well as creation of new digitized data, resources and facilities were
mapped iQWKHSURMHFWVWXG\DUHD7KLV´RSSRUWXQLWLHVDQGFRQVWUDLQWVµPDS, Figure 6.26, shows the
resource lands and environmental features that may constrain project development in the
transportation corridor. Included on the map are:
    Public parks
    Hazardous material sites
    Railroad
    Potential historic structures
    100-year flood zone
    ODFW Fern Ridge Wildlife Area boundary
    Potential jurisdictional wetlands and water resources
    'HVLJQDWHG&ULWLFDO+DELWDWIRU)HQGHU·VEOXHEXWWHUIO\.LQFDLG·VOXSLQHDQG:LOODPHWWHGDLsy
    BPA transmission lines and towers

The items shown on the map represent known resources that may affect the design of the
alternatives in terms of regulatory requirements, and as alternatives become more refined, avoiding
and minimizing impacts. Map items were added in response to public comments from preliminary
meetings with stakeholders and interested parties; moreover, additional items may be included on
the map as new information is uncovered.

The wetland/water resources layer was digitized based on field observations from a water resource
specialist. The historic structure points were created from an address database provided by a historic
resource specialist. The hazardous material sites were created from addresses identified in Oregon
'(4·V(&6, database. Archaeological areas of concern were also delineated by a specialist, but due
to the confidential nature of these sensitive resources, are not shown on the map. All remaining data
items bulleted above were provided through Lane Council of Governments GIS database or
through the ODFW.

Key features that may affect the extent of transportation improvements are Fern Ridge Lake, Fern
Ridge Wildlife Area, Perkins Peninsula Park, Willamette daisy critical habitat, wetland features along
OR 126W, Cantrell Road, Central Road, and Perkins Road, and the railroad corridor paralleling the
south side of OR 126W. As alternatives are refined, consideration must be given to avoiding and
minimizing impacts to these resources. A possible opportunity for enhancement includes
alternatives that may improve the hydrological flow across OR 126W.




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   151
        OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Figure 6.26. Opportunities and Constraints




       152   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | January 2011
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




6.20.1. Archaeological Constraints
A total of 20 cultural resources reports on file at SHPO present the results of archaeological
investigations that have been conducted within or directly adjacent to the project area. Eleven of the
previously reported projects include or abut portions of the project area, and nine are located just
outside of the project boundaries. Seven of projects have been conducted along OR 126W and the
railroad tracks south and east of Oak Hill in the northeast corner of the project area.

In addition to the projects conducted within the project area, nine cultural resources surveys have
been completed in close proximity to the project boundaries, which resulted in the recording of four
isolated artifacts (Tveskov 1994), a prehistoric site and an historic barn (Baxter 1981), and a 1950s
historic trash dump (Musil 2004a), all located within a quarter mile of the project area.

A review of previous archaeological research in or near the project area, especially the surveys
conducted in Fern Ridge Lake, shows that prehistoric sites tend to be located along rivers and
streams, and at slightly higher elevations at the ecotone between forest areas and the floodplain.

Areas of known or potential cultural resources have been mapped for use by ODOT and the project
design team but, because of the highly sensitive nature of these resources, this mapped information
is not available in this report which will be made available for public review.

Additionally, this report will be used to initiate a dialogue with Tribes and may result in the
identification of other areas to be avoided during the project planning process.

6.20.2. Biological Constraints
Biological-related constraints common to all build alternatives include the need for rare plant
surveys. Alternatives with larger construction areas would require larger rare plant survey areas. If
spot improvements or TSM facilities are located outside of potential rare plant habitat, then the need
for extensive rare plant surveys may be avoidable. However, construction areas located within
potential rare plant habitat would need to be surveyed during the appropriate seasons for detecting
target rare plant species. This would likely include multiple rare plant surveys in order to accurately
survey for multiple target species that bloom at various times between April and September.

Existing OR 126W Alignment
Expanding the existing OR 126W alignment would significantly impact the existing aquatic and
wetland habitats along Fern Ridge Lake and would require extensive federal and state permitting.
Portions of the alignment pass through managed wildlife habitat areas within the ODFW Fern Ridge
Wildlife Area. Providing mitigation for impacts to these habitats would be difficult given the
numerous existing wetland types and floodway. This constraint would present the highest point of
concern for the following alternatives:



                         February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   153
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


   Three-Lane Cross Section and Design Option
   Four-Lane Cross Section and Design Option

Aquatic and wetland habitat impacts would present less of a constraint for the other build
alternatives, since habitat impacts could more readily be avoided. These alternatives include:
    TSM
    Spot Improvements (assuming the Multi-Use Path Design Option would only be constructed
    where wetland/open water habitat impacts could be avoided)

Critical habitat is mapped within the project area for Willamette Daisy. This constraint would
present the highest point of concern for the following alternatives:
    Three-Lane Cross Section and Design Option
    Four-Lane Cross Section and Design Option

Critical habitat impacts would present less of a constraint for the other build alternatives, since
habitat impacts could more readily be avoided. These alternatives include:
    TSM
    Spot Improvements (assuming the Multi-Use Path Design Option would only be constructed
    where critical habitat impacts could be avoided)

Southern Route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads
Expanding Perkins Road and Cantrell Road would likely impact the existing aquatic and wetland
habitats along the alignment and would require federal and state permitting. Of particular concern
would be expanding the existing bridge crossing at Coyote Creek, which is located within a managed
wildlife habitat area (ODFW Fern Ridge Wildlife Area). Constructing a new multi-use bridge would
be of similar concern. This constraint would present the highest point of concern for the following
alternative:
    Multi-Use Path

Aquatic and wetland habitat impacts would present less of a constraint for the other build
alternative, since habitat impacts could more readily be avoided because improvements would only
be constructed where feasible. This alternative includes:
    Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative

Critical habitat is mapped within the project area for Willamette Daisy. This constraint would
present the highest point of concern for the following alternative:
    Multi-Use Path




    154   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Critical habitat impacts would present less of a constraint for the other build alternative, since
habitat impacts could more readily be avoided because improvements would only be constructed
where feasible. This alternatives includes:
    Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative

6.20.3. Historic Resources Constraints
On the basis of historical map information (Figures 6.8-3 through 6.8-5), it is estimated that there
are approximately 120 historic resources in the PSA that are 45 years of age and older that will
require survey and inventory. Most of the resources do not appear to be eligible for the National
Register due to alterations to the resource and a lack of distinctive architectural features. However
there are a few remaining historic farm and agricultural building complexes that may be potentially
eligible. Project alternatives should seek to avoid or minimize potential effects on eligible resources
in accordance with federal and state law.

6.20.4. Transportation Constraints
Based on the existing and future transportation conditions analysis, the following transportation
constraints were identified:
   The corridor lacks good parallel facilities and connectivity (i.e., east-west connection) between
   Eugene and Veneta, which contributes to congestion in the area and impacts emergency
   response and incident management. Using the roadways to the south would require roadway
   classification changes by the County because Perkins Road is a Rural Minor Collector and
   Cantrell Road is only a Rural Local Road.
   The curved geometry of the roadway at the eastern end in conjunction with rainy or dark
   conditions could pose a hazard to users of the roadway.
   The only signalized intersection on the study corridor is located on the eastern end at Green Hill
   Road (within the City of Eugene UGB). Dedicated left turn lanes only exist at a few locations
   along the OR 126W study corridor. At intersections and driveways where no left turn lane exists,
   left turning vehicles often stop in the through travel lanes, causing queuing and congestion
   problems.
   Along the stretch of OR 126W in the study corridor, the greatest concentration of access points
   is located at the westernmost section between Huston and Ellmaker Roads. On this segment,
   there are 22 total access points, all of which are located on the north side of the roadway. This
   results in an average spacing of 220 feet between access points, but the access spacing standard
   is 1,320 feet.
   OR 126W is designated as a Freight Route by ODOT; therefore, highway modifications to the
   roadway should not reduce the through capacity of the highway and should maintain its
   reliability and mobility.
   For the majority of the project study area corridor (i.e., Huston Road to Fisher Road), the Coos
   Bay Rail Line is located only fifty feet south of OR 126W and there are five at-grade railroad
   crossings south of OR 126W.

                         February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   155
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


6.20.5. Wetlands and Water Resources Constraints
Wetlands and waters in Oregon are regulated by federal and state law. Undisturbed buffers adjacent
to wetlands and waterways may be regulated at the local level.

Federal
   Clean Water Act (CWA)
   o Section 404 Permit ² Required for discharge of dredged and fill material into waters of the
       U.S., including wetlands. Requires minimization of impacts to jurisdictional wetlands and
       waters to the maximum extent practical. Mitigation to offset impacts to wetlands and waters
       of the U.S. is required for permanent fill activities. Restoration is required for temporary
       impact areas.
   o Section 401 Water Quality Certification ² Requires an applicant for a federal permit to
       conduct an activity that may result in discharge to waters of the U.S. to also obtain
       certification that the activity complies with water quality requirements and standards.
   Fern Ridge Operational Management Plan Section 2.9 ² Shoreline Management Plan (USACE,
   1997) ² Establishes a permit procedure for shoreline use, including vegetation modification.
   Erosion control and bank stabilization objectives may justify the need for vegetation
   modification.

State
   Oregon Removal-Fill Law
   o Removal-Fill Permit, ORS 196.795-990 ² Required for removal or fill of material within
      jurisdictional wetlands or waters of the state.
   o Compensatory Mitigation, OAR 141-085-0680 to 141-085-0765 ² Requires mitigation to
      offset impacts to wetlands and waters of the state. Restoration is required for temporary
      impact areas.
   National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
   o Stormwater Discharge Permit (1200-C), ORS 468b.050 and Section 402 of the CWA ²
      Required for construction activities including clearing, grading, excavating, materials or
      equipment staging and stockpiling that will disturb one or more acres and may discharge into
      surface waters or conveyance systems leading to surface waters of the state. A Temporary
      Erosion Control Plan would likely be required.

Local
   City of Eugene Land Use Code. Wetland Buffer Overlay Zone (City of Eugene, 2010) ² Applies
   an undisturbed buffer to the protected wetland at the east end of the project alignment on the
   east side of Green Hill Road between Crow Road and OR 126W.

Existing OR 126W Alignment
Expanding the roadway for vehicle and multi -use path would impact the existing wetland and water
resources along Fern Ridge Lake and would require extensive federal and state permitting. Providing


    156   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


mitigation for impacts to these resources would be complex given the numerous existing wetland
types and floodway. This constraint would present the highest point of concern for the following
alternatives:
    Three-Lane Cross Section and Design Option
    Four-Lane Cross Section and Design Option

Wetland and water resource impacts would present less of a constraint for the other build
alternatives, since resource impacts could more readily be avoided. These alternatives include:
    TSM
    Spot Improvements (it is likely the Multi-Use Path Design Option would not completely avoid
    wetland/water resource impacts)

Southern Route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads
Expanding the roadway for vehicle and multi-use path would likely impact the existing wetland and
water resources along the alignment and would require federal and state permitting. Of particular
concern would be expanding the existing bridge crossing at Coyote Creek. Constructing a new
multi-use bridge would be of similar concern. This constraint would present the highest point of
concern for the following alternative:
   Multi-Use Path

Wetland and water resource impacts would present less of a constraint for the other build
alternative, since resource impacts could more readily be avoided because improvements would only
be constructed where feasible. This alternative includes:
    Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative


7. ALTERNATIVES EVALUATION
&ULWHULDZHUHGHYHORSHGFRQVLVWHQWZLWKWKHSURMHFW·Vdraft goals and objectives and used to evaluate
the transportation improvement alternatives including the No-Build Alternative. Criteria were
developed through key stakeholder input where they identified the issues and community values that
are beyond the draft Purpose and Need, but can be addressed by the project. This section
documents the criteria evaluation process.

7.1. Methods

7KHSURMHFW·VIRXUJRDOVDQGREMHFWLYHVZHUHWUDQVODWHGLQWR8 criteria which were used to
evaluate the likely effect of the transportation improvement alternatives on the transportation
system, environmental resources, social and economic factors, and community planning. The
alternatives were evaluated in terms of the probability that the proposed improvements would
address each criterion. For each criterion, the alternatives were assigned a score based on a low,

                        February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   157
OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


moderate, or high probability of effect based on context intensity and desired outcome. The best
outcome received a score of 3 while the least desired outcome received a score of 1. Alternatives
anticipated to have a moderate probability of effect received a score of 2. The assigned points for
the 38 criteria were totaled to evaluate how the alternatives compared to one another in terms of
best meeting the project·V draft goals and objectives.

7.2. Evaluation Criteria and Measures

Draft criteria were prepared for use in evaluating and comparing between the improvement
alternatives that have met the draft Purpose and Need. These criteria are intended to differentiate
alternatives and will help ensure the greatest consistency between the SURMHFW·Vdraft goals and
objectives and the recommended improvements for the OR 126W corridor. Evaluation criteria are
OLVWHGEHORZE\WKHSURMHFW·VIRXUdraft goals.

7.2.1. Transportation
     Reduce potential conflict points such as intersections and driveways
     Improve pedestrian safety and accessibility
     Improve bicycle safety and accessibility
     Improve overall traffic safety
     Improve east/west vehicle capacity
     Promote public transit service
     Improve mobility along corridor, including freight
     Improve emergency vehicle response time
     Strive to meet ODOT mobility standards
     Minimize impacts to the railroad for freight movements
     Minimize impacts to the railroad that limit opportunities for future rail transit

7.2.2. Environmental
     Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary5 impacts to Fern Ridge Lake
     Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to other environmentally sensitive
     natural resource areas
     Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to identified historical resources.
     Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to cultural resources
     Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to visual resources
     Provide, maintain, and improve access to existing parkland and recreational facilities, where
     practicable
     Be consistent with ODFW Fern Ridge Wildlife Area Plan


5
   A  permanent  impact  is  a  lasting  effect  on  the  built  or  natural  environment.  A  temporary  impact  has  a  short-term  
effect  resulting  from  construction  activities.  


      158    Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


7.2.3. Social and Economic
    Support community livability by improving multi-modal access to residential areas
    Support community livability and economics by improving multi-modal access to commercial
    areas
    Support community livability and economics by improving multi-modal access to
    recreational/tourist areas
    Support area economic vitality by improving roadway geometrics for freight movements
    Consistent with City of Veneta Economic Development Strategic Plan
    Consistent with Lane County Regional Economic Development Strategies
    Provide transportation facilities which are accessible to all community members and users
    Minimize impacts to properties along the corridor
    SXSSRUWUDLORSSRUWXQLWLHVIRU9HQHWD·VLQGXVWULDODUHDV

7.2.4. Community Values
    Improve access opportunities to Fern Ridge Lake along the corridor
    Improve access to Perkins Peninsula County Park
    Be consistent with Oregon Highway Plan
    Be consistent with Oregon Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan
    Be consistent with Lane County Transportation System Plan
    Be consistent with Fern Ridge Path System: Visions and Strategies
    Be consistent with City of Veneta Comprehensive Plan
    Be consistent with Lane County Land Use Code
    Support regional bicycle/pedestrian plans
    Support planned parkland and recreational facilities, where practicable
    Be consistent with USACE Fern Ridge Operational Management Plan

7.3. Rating and Ranking of Alternatives

Table 7.1 lists the 38 criteria and the points assigned for each alternative under evaluation. The best
score is 3 and the low score is 1. Alternatives with higher point totals rate more favorably as per the
project·V draft goals and objectives. It is important to note that the rating of alternatives based on
probability of effect is a tool to be used along with other tools and input to assist decision-makers in
selecting which alternatives should be advanced for further evaluation in the Tier 2 screening.




                         February 2012| Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   159
         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Table 7.1. Tier 1 Criteria, Measures, and Evaluation Scores

                                                                                                                        OR 126 Improvements                                                                                            Southern
                                                                                                                                 Three-Lane                                                          Four-Lane                        Route-Two/
                                                                                                                                   Facility                                                           Facility                        Three Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Facility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       with Intersection Turning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Two-Lane Cross Section
                                                                                                                               Spot Improvements w/




                                                                                                                                                                        A. Causeway - Piers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                A. Causeway - Piers
                                                                                                           Spot Improvements




                                                                                                                                                      Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                              Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lanes Alternative
                                                                                                                                  Multi-Use Path


                                                                                                                                                        (Earth/Rock)




                                                                                                                                                                                                (Earth/Rock)
                                                                                          No-Build

                                                                                                     TSM
                             Criteria                             Measures




                                                               Goal 1: Transportation
 G1.1    Reduce potential conflict points such as      Number of estimated conflict
         intersections and driveways                        points reduced                  1        1         1                      1                    2                 3                     2                 3                           1

 G1.2    Improve pedestrian safety and accessibility    Probability that pedestrian
                                                       safety and accessibility would       1        1         1                      3                    2                 2                     2                 2                           2
                                                                be improved
 G1.3    Improve bicycle safety and accessibility      Probability that bicycle safety
                                                         and accessibility would be         1        1         1                      3                    2                 2                     2                 2                           2
                                                                 improved
 G1.4    Improve overall traffic safety                Probability that overall traffic
                                                                                            1        1         2                      2                    3                 3                     3                 3                           2
                                                        safety would be improved.
 G1.5    Improve east/west vehicle capacity              Probability that east/west
                                                         vehicle capacity would be          1        1         1                      1                    3                 3                     3                 3                           2
                                                                 improved
 G1.6    Improve mobility along corridor, including       Probability that freight
                                                                                            1        1         2                      2                    2                 2                     3                 3                           1
         freight                                       mobility would be improved




        160   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                                                                   OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Table 7.1. Tier 1 Criteria, Measures, and Evaluation Scores (Cont.)
                                                                                                                       OR 126 Improvements                                                                                              Southern
                                                                                                                                Three-Lane                                                          Four-Lane                          Route-Two/
                                                                                                                                  Facility                                                           Facility                          Three Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Facility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           with Intersection Turning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Two-Lane Cross Section
                                                                                                                              Spot Improvements w/




                                                                                                                                                                       A. Causeway - Piers




                                                                                                                                                                                                               A. Causeway - Piers
                                                                                                          Spot Improvements




                                                                                                                                                     Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                             Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lanes Alternative
                                                                                                                                 Multi-Use Path


                                                                                                                                                       (Earth/Rock)




                                                                                                                                                                                               (Earth/Rock)
                                                                                         No-Build

                                                                                                    TSM
                            Criteria                             Measures




G1.7    Support public transit service                 Probability that public transit
                                                        service would be promoted          1        2         1                      1                    2                 2                     2                 2                                1

G1.8    Improve emergency vehicle response time         Probability that emergency
                                                       vehicle response time would         1        1         1                      1                    2                 2                     3                 3                                2
                                                               be improved
G1.9    Minimize impacts to the railroad for freight    Impacts to the railroad for
        movement                                       freight movement would be           3        3         3                      3                    3                 3                     3                 3                                3
                                                                minimized
G1.10   Strive to meet ODOT mobility standards in        Probability that ODOT
        the future                                     mobility standards would be         1        1         1                      1                    2                 2                     3                 3                                2
                                                             met in the future
G1.11   Minimize impacts to the railroad that limit     Impacts to the railroad for
        opportunities for future rail transit           future rail transit would be       3        3         3                      3                    3                 3                     3                 3                                3
                                                                minimized
                                                               Goal 2: Environmental
G2.1    Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and          Probability that adverse
        temporary impacts to Fern Ridge Lake            permanent and temporary
                                                       impacts to Fern Ridge Lake          3        3         3                      2                    1                 2                     1                 2                                3
                                                          would be avoided or
                                                               minimized


                                                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                                                                                                      161
        OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Table 7.1. Tier 1 Criteria, Measures, and Evaluation Scores (Cont.)
                                                                                                                   OR 126 Improvements                                                                                            Southern
                                                                                                                            Three-Lane                                                          Four-Lane                        Route-Two/
                                                                                                                              Facility                                                           Facility                        Three Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Facility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  with Intersection Turning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Two-Lane Cross Section
                                                                                                                          Spot Improvements w/




                                                                                                                                                                   A. Causeway - Piers




                                                                                                                                                                                                           A. Causeway - Piers
                                                                                                      Spot Improvements




                                                                                                                                                 Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                         Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lanes Alternative
                                                                                                                             Multi-Use Path


                                                                                                                                                   (Earth/Rock)




                                                                                                                                                                                           (Earth/Rock)
                                                                                     No-Build

                                                                                                TSM
                           Criteria                            Measures




G2.2    Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and         Probability that adverse
        temporary impacts to other environmentally     permanent and temporary
        sensitive natural resource areas              impacts to environmentally
                                                                                       3        3         3                      2                    2                 2                     1                 2                           1
                                                       sensitive natural resource
                                                       areas would be avoided or
                                                               minimized.
G2.3    Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and         Probability that adverse
        temporary impacts to identified historical     permanent and temporary
        resources                                         impacts to identified        3        3         3                      2                    2                 2                     2                 2                           2
                                                     historical resources would be
                                                         avoided or minimized.
G2.4    Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and         Probability that adverse
        temporary impacts to cultural resources        permanent and temporary
                                                     impacts to cultural resources     3        3         3                      2                    2                 2                     2                 2                           2
                                                          would be avoided or
                                                               minimized.
G2.5    Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and         Probability that adverse
        temporary impacts to visual resources          permanent and temporary
                                                      impacts to visual resources      3        3         3                      3                    2                 2                     2                 2                           2
                                                          would be avoided or
                                                               minimized.




       162   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                                                                 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Table 7.1. Tier 1 Criteria, Measures, and Evaluation Scores (Cont.)
                                                                                                                     OR 126 Improvements                                                                                              Southern
                                                                                                                              Three-Lane                                                          Four-Lane                          Route-Two/
                                                                                                                                Facility                                                           Facility                          Three Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Facility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         with Intersection Turning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Two-Lane Cross Section
                                                                                                                            Spot Improvements w/




                                                                                                                                                                     A. Causeway - Piers




                                                                                                                                                                                                             A. Causeway - Piers
                                                                                                        Spot Improvements




                                                                                                                                                   Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                           Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lanes Alternative
                                                                                                                               Multi-Use Path


                                                                                                                                                     (Earth/Rock)




                                                                                                                                                                                             (Earth/Rock)
                                                                                       No-Build

                                                                                                  TSM
                            Criteria                            Measures




G2.6    Provide, maintain, and improve access to        Probability that access to
        parkland and recreational facilities, where       existing parkland and
        practicable                                    recreational facilities would     1        1         2                      2                    2                 2                     2                 2                                1
                                                      be provided, maintained and
                                                              /or improved.
G2.7    Be consistent with ODFW Fern Ridge Wildlife     Level of consistency with
        Area Plan                                     ODFW Fern Ridge Wildlife           2        2         2                      2                    1                 3                     1                 3                                2
                                                                   Area.
                                                           Goal 3: Social and Economic
G3.1    Support community livability by improving     Probability that multi-modal
        multi-modal access to residential areas        access to residential areas       1        1         1                      2                    1                 1                     1                 1                                2
                                                         would be improved.
G3.2    Support community livability and economics    Probability that multi-modal
        by improving multi-modal access to             access to commercial areas        1        1         1                      2                    2                 2                     2                 2                                2
        commercial areas                                   would be improved.
G3.3    Support community livability and economics    Probability that multi-modal
        by improving multi-modal access to            access to recreational/tourist     1        1         1                      3                    2                 2                     2                 2                                2
        recreational/tourist areas                      areas would be improved.




                                                      February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                                                                                                     163
        OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Table 7.1. Tier 1 Criteria, Measures, and Evaluation Scores (Cont.)
                                                                                                                   OR 126 Improvements                                                                                            Southern
                                                                                                                            Three-Lane                                                          Four-Lane                        Route-Two/
                                                                                                                              Facility                                                           Facility                        Three Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Facility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  with Intersection Turning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Two-Lane Cross Section
                                                                                                                          Spot Improvements w/




                                                                                                                                                                   A. Causeway - Piers




                                                                                                                                                                                                           A. Causeway - Piers
                                                                                                      Spot Improvements




                                                                                                                                                 Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                         Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lanes Alternative
                                                                                                                             Multi-Use Path


                                                                                                                                                   (Earth/Rock)




                                                                                                                                                                                           (Earth/Rock)
                                                                                     No-Build

                                                                                                TSM
                            Criteria                           Measures




G3.4    Support area economic vitality by improving    Potential to support area
        roadway geometrics for freight movements          economic vitality by
                                                          improving roadway            1        1         2                      2                    3                 3                     3                 3                           1
                                                         geometrics for freight
                                                              movements
G3.5    Provide transportation facilities which are         Likelihood that
        accessible to all community members and         transportation facilities
                                                                                       1        1         1                      3                    2                 2                     2                 2                           2
        users                                          would be accessible to all
                                                         community members.
G3.6    Consistent with City of Veneta Economic        Level of consistency with
        Development Strategic Plan                     City of Veneta Economic         1        1         1                      1                    2                 2                     3                 3                           2
                                                      Development Strategic Plan.
G3.7    Consistent with Lane County Regional           Level of consistency with
        Economic Development Strategies                  Lane County Regional
                                                                                       1        1         1                      1                    2                 2                     3                 3                           2
                                                       Economic Development
                                                               Strategies.
G3.8    Minimize impacts to properties along the        Probability that property
        corridor                                       related impacts would be        3        3         3                      2                    2                 2                     1                 1                           1
                                                      minimized along the corridor




       164   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                                                                OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Table 7.1. Tier 1 Criteria, Measures, and Evaluation Scores (Cont.)
                                                                                                                    OR 126 Improvements                                                                                              Southern
                                                                                                                             Three-Lane                                                          Four-Lane                          Route-Two/
                                                                                                                               Facility                                                           Facility                          Three Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Facility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        with Intersection Turning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Two-Lane Cross Section
                                                                                                                           Spot Improvements w/




                                                                                                                                                                    A. Causeway - Piers




                                                                                                                                                                                                            A. Causeway - Piers
                                                                                                       Spot Improvements




                                                                                                                                                  Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                          Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lanes Alternative
                                                                                                                              Multi-Use Path


                                                                                                                                                    (Earth/Rock)




                                                                                                                                                                                            (Earth/Rock)
                                                                                      No-Build

                                                                                                 TSM
                           Criteria                              Measures




G3.9    6XSSRUWUDLORSSRUWXQLWLHVIRU9HQHWD·V                 Probability that rail
        industrial areas                                RSSRUWXQLWLHVIRU9HQHWD·V
                                                         industrial areas would be      1        1         2                      2                    2                 2                     3                 3                                1
                                                                supported.

                                                             Goal 4: Community Values
G4.1    Improve access opportunities to Fern Ridge       Probability that access to
        Lake and Perkins Peninsula County Park along   Fern Ridge Land and Perkins
                                                                                        1        1         2                      2                    3                 3                     3                 3                                1
        the corridor                                   Peninsula County Park would
                                                               be improved.
G4.2    Be consistent with Oregon Highway Plan           Level of consistency with
                                                                                        1        1         1                      1                    2                 2                     3                 3                                1
                                                          Oregon Highway Plan.
G4.3    Be consistent with Oregon Bicycle and            Level of consistency with
        Pedestrian Plan                                    Oregon Bicycle and           1        1         1                      3                    2                 2                     2                 2                                2
                                                             Pedestrian Plan.
G4.4    Be consistent with Lane County                   Level of consistency with
        Transportation System Plan                     Lane County Transportation       1        1         1                      1                    2                 2                     2                 2                                1
                                                               System Plan.
G4.5    Be consistent with Fern Ridge Path System:       Level of consistency with
        Visions and Strategies                           Fern Ridge Path System:        1        1         1                      3                    1                 1                     1                 1                                1
                                                          Visions and Strategies.



                                                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                                                                                                  165
        OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Table 7.1. Tier 1 Criteria, Measures, and Evaluation Scores (Cont.)
                                                                                                                    OR 126 Improvements                                                                                            Southern
                                                                                                                             Three-Lane                                                          Four-Lane                        Route-Two/
                                                                                                                               Facility                                                           Facility                        Three Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Facility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   with Intersection Turning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Two-Lane Cross Section
                                                                                                                           Spot Improvements w/




                                                                                                                                                                    A. Causeway - Piers




                                                                                                                                                                                                            A. Causeway - Piers
                                                                                                       Spot Improvements




                                                                                                                                                  Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                          Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lanes Alternative
                                                                                                                              Multi-Use Path


                                                                                                                                                    (Earth/Rock)




                                                                                                                                                                                            (Earth/Rock)
                                                                                      No-Build

                                                                                                 TSM
                            Criteria                            Measures




G4.6     Be consistent with City of Veneta              Level of consistency with
         Comprehensive Plan                                  City of Veneta             1        1         1                      2                    2                 2                     3                 3                           2
                                                         Comprehensive Plan.
G4.7     Compliant with Lane County Land Use Code       Level of compliance with
                                                                                        3        3         3                      2                    1                 1                     1                 1                           1
                                                      Lane County Land Use Code.
G4.8     Support regional bicycle/pedestrian plans    Potential to support regional
                                                        bicycle/pedestrian plans.       1        1         1                      3                    2                 2                     2                 2                           2

G4.9     Support planned parkland and recreational    Potential to support planned
         facilities, where practicable                 parkland and recreational        1        1         1                      2                    2                 2                     2                 2                           2
                                                                 facilities.
G4.10    Consistent with USACE Fern Ridge              Level of consistency with
         Operational Management Plan                     USACE ² Fern Ridge
                                                                                        3        3         3                      2                    1                 2                     1                 2                           3
                                                       Operational Management
                                                                   Plan.
                                                                Total Raw Score       58         59    64                      75                    74             79                       80             86                             65




        166   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                                                                                            OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Table 7.2. Tier 1 Evaluation Scores Equalized by Project Goals*
                                                                                                                            OR 126 Improvements                                                                                        Southern
                                                                                                                                        Three-Lane                                                  Four-Lane                         Route-Two/
                                                                                                                                          Facility                                                   Facility                         Three Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Facility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       with Intersection Turning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Two-Lane Cross Section
                                                                                                                              Spot Improvements w/




                                                                                                                                                                       A. Causeway - Piers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                A. Causeway - Piers
                                                                                                        Spot Improvements




                                                                                                                                                     Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                             Causeway ² Dike




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lanes Alternative
                                                                                                                                 Multi-Use Path



                                                                                                                                                       (Earth/Rock)




                                                                                                                                                                                               (Earth/Rock)
                                                                                      No-Build


                                                                                                 TSM
                         Goal                             Number of Criteria




 Goal 1: Transportation                                            11                 13.6       14.5   15.5                   19.1                   23.6             24.5                   26.4             27.3                         19.1
 Goal 2: Environmental                                             7                  25.7       25.7   27.1                   21.4                   17.1             21.4                   15.7             21.4                         18.6
 Goal 3: Social and Economic                                       9                  12.2       12.2   14.4                       20                   20             20                     22.2             22.2                         16.7
 Goal 4: Community Values                                          10                 14         14     15                         21                   18             19                       20              21                             16

                                                              Total Equalized Score
                                                                                      65.5       66.4   72                     81.5                   78.7             84.9                   84.3             91.9                         70.4
*Total criteria scores for each goal divided by the number of criteria.




                                                               February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report                                                                        167
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Based on the point system total, comparing all of the alternatives evaluated, the OR 126W Four-
Lane Cross Section Causeway on Piers Design Option Alternative scored the highest, scoring
slightly better than the primary Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative (Causeway on Dike
(Earth/Rock)). In general, this alternative scored well by providing the greatest level of operational
and safety improvements to the highway. It did not score well in the environmental criteria
categories as it would require the greatest amount of right-of-way and potentially have a larger
construction footprint relative to the other alternatives. However, replacing the existing dike
causeway/highway with a pier-supported highway allows for potential enhancement to the natural
water flow under the highway, which is reflected in improved scores related to Fern Ridge
Lake/natural resource criteria compared to the primary alternative which constructs the widened
roadway on the existing dike.

The Spot Improvements Alternative with the Multi-Use Path Design Option was the third highest
ranked alternative. This alternative scored higher in the environmental categories yet not as well in
the operational and safety criteria. The OR 126W Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative followed
next in the scoring, with the Causeway on Piers Design Option in the fourth position and the
primary alternative (Causeway on Dike (Earth/Rock)) as the fifth highest scoring alternative.
Compared to the higher rated Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative, the Three-Lane Cross Section
generally scored in the moderate range for traffic operations and capacity criteria. As discussed
above, the Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative Design Option (Causeway on Piers) was rated
higher than the primary alternative (Causeway on Dike (Earth/Rock)) due to potential hydrological
and environmental benefits.

At the lower end of the scoring range were the No-Build and TSM Alternatives, which were scored
as a baseline comparison for the project. The Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning
Lanes Alternative would have a moderate affect on OR 126W mobility, but scores low in the safety
conditions criteria for OR 126W. It is also not consistent with applicable transportation plans and
therefore rated at the low end of the scoring. The Spot Improvements Alternative (without the
Multi-Use Path Design Option) fared slightly better in terms of helping safety conditions on OR
126W, but scored poorly in the bicycle and pedestrian-related categories. This is reflected in the
considerably better score for the Spot Improvement Alternative that includes the addition of the
Multi-Use Path Design Option.

Additional criteria evaluation information is provided in the following sections by discipline.

7.3.1. Archaeological
One criterion was used to screen alternatives for potential effects to archaeological resources:
   Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to identified
   cultural/archaeological resources?




    168   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Scoring was based on the following measures:
   3 = Anticipated impacts to cultural/archaeological resources would be low (most desirable
   outcome)
   2 = Anticipated impacts to cultural/archaeological resources would be moderate
   1 = Anticipated impacts to cultural/archaeological resources would be high (least desirable
   outcome)

Existing OR 126W Alignment
The No-Build Alternative scored high on the archaeological resources-related criterion and is scored
a 3, low risk. The criterion is met because there would be no new construction and therefore no
impacts as a result of the No-Build Alternative. See Section 6.3 for a discussion of archaeological
existing conditions.

The TSM Alternative scored high on the archaeological-related criterion. The criterion may be met
depending on the locations of new TSM facilities such as park-and-ride lots, transit stations, and
pedestrian facilities. This alternative is scored a 3, low risk, assuming that new TSM facilities could
be constructed in a manner to avoid impacts to archaeological resources.

The Spot Improvement Alternative (without the Multi-use Path) scored high on the
cultural/archaeological-related criterion. The criterion may be met depending on the locations of
spot improvements. This alternative is scored a 3, low risk, assuming that spot improvements would
be constructed in a manner to avoid impacts to archaeological resources.

The Spot Improvement Alternative with the Multi-use Path Design Option scored moderate on the
archaeological-related criterion. The criterion may be met depending on the locations of spot
improvements and the new multi-use path. This assumes that the multi-use path would only be
constructed where impacts are avoidable, and would not extend the full alignment length. This
alternative is scored a 2, moderate risk, assuming that improvements would be constructed in a
manner to avoid and minimize impacts to cultural/archaeological resources but acknowledging that
constructing a multi-modal path along the existing OR 126W alignment has some possibility of
encountering previously unidentified archaeological resources.

The Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative (both the Primary Dike (Earth/Rock) Alternative and
Piers Design Option) are scored a 2, moderate risk. The widening of OR 126W could impact
subsurface resources. Theoretically, this alternative could have less impacts than the impacts
associated with the Multi-use Path option.

The Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative (both the Primary Dike (Earth / Rock) Alternative and
Piers Design Option) are scored a 2, moderate risk for the archaeological-related criteria. The
widening of OR 126W to four lanes has a greater probability of disturbing subsurface resources than



                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   169
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


the Three-Lane Alternative and its Design Option. Theoretically, this alternative could have less
impacts than those associated with the Multi-use Path option.

Southern Route Along Perkins and Cantrell Roads
The Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative is scored a 2, moderate
risk, for the archaeological related-criterion because water resources currently and historically
crossed the location of the southern route and there is some risk that widening could impact
subsurface resources.

7.3.2. Biological
Identified criteria that are applicable to biological resources include the following:
   Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to Fern Ridge Lake; and
   Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to other environmentally
   sensitive natural resource areas.

Measures for both criteria are iGHQWLILHGDV´IHZHVWHVWLPDWHGOLNHO\DGYHUVHLPSDFWVµ A low level of
anticipated impacts was scored a 3, a moderate level was scored a 2, and a high level of anticipated
impacts was scored a 1.

Fern Ridge Lake provides habitat for numerous wildlife species, including some sensitive species.
Other environmentally sensitive natural resource areas include sensitive wildlife habitats, potential
rare plant habitats, and portions of the Fern Ridge Wildlife Area. These include habitats such as
riparian corridors, oak woodlands, and both wetland and upland native prairies (see OR 126W: Fern
Ridge Corridor Plan Biological Resources Technical Report).

Existing OR 126W Alignment
The No-Build Alternative scored high on both of the biological resources-related criteria. The
criteria are met because there would be no new impacts as a result of the No-Build Alternative.

The TSM Alternative scored high on both of the biological-related criteria. The criteria may be met
depending on the locations of new TSM facilities such as park-and-ride lots, transit stations, and
pedestrian facilities.

The Spot Improvement Alternative (with and without Multi-use Path Design Option) may meet
both of the biological-related criteria. The criteria may be met depending on the locations of spot
improvements and the new multi-use path. This assumes that the multi-use path would only be
constructed where impacts are avoidable, and would not extend the full alignment length.

The Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative Causeway on Dike (Earth / Rock) does not meet either
of the biological-related criteria. The widening of OR 126W would impact Fern Ridge Lake and
would likely impact other environmentally sensitive habitats.


    170   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




The Causeway on Piers Design Option for the Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative partially meets
WKH´Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and temporary LPSDFWVWR)HUQ5LGJH/DNHµFULWHULRQ
It would result in short-term construction-related impacts to Fern Ridge Lake, but would minimize
operational impacts. The Causeway on Piers Design Option would result in an overall long-term
benefit to Fern Ridge Lake habitat, including improved passage for some wildlife and fish species.
Construction-related impacts associated with this design option would be mitigated by the overall
long-term benefits. 7KH´Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to other
HQYLURQPHQWDOO\VHQVLWLYHQDWXUDOUHVRXUFHDUHDVµFULWHULRQZRXOGQRWEHPHWVLQFHWKHUHPDLQLQJ
alignment would match the Three-Lane Cross Section Causeway on Dike (Earth / Rock)
Alternative.

The Four-Lane Cross Section Causeway on Dike (Earth / Rock) Alternative does not meet either of
the biological-related criteria. The widening of OR 126W would impact Fern Ridge Lake and would
likely impact other environmentally sensitive habitats.

The Causeway on Piers Design Option for the Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative partially meets
WKH´Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and temporary LPSDFWVWR)HUQ5LGJH/DNHµFULWHULRQ
It would result in short-term construction-related impacts to Fern Ridge Lake, but would minimize
operational impacts. The Causeway on Piers Design Option would result in an overall long-term
benefit to Fern Ridge Lake habitat, including improved passage for some wildlife and fish species.
Construction-related impacts associated with this design option would be mitigated by the overall
long-WHUPEHQHILWV7KH´Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to other
HQYLURQPHQWDOO\VHQVLWLYHQDWXUDOUHVRXUFHDUHDVµFULWHULRQZRXOGQRWbe met since the remaining
alignment would match the Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative.

Southern Route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads
The Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes PHHWVWKH´Avoid and minimize
adverse permanent and temporary LPSDFWVWR)HUQ5LGJH/DNHµFULWHULRQEHFDXVHWKHsouthern route
OR 126W is located away from Fern Ridge Lake and no direct impacts would be anticipated. The
´Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to other environmentally sensitive
QDWXUDOUHVRXUFHDUHDVµFULWHULRQPD\EHPHWLIIDFLOLW\LPSURYHPHQWVHJPHQWVDUHOLPLWHGWRQRQ-
sensitive natural areas.

7.3.3. Historic Resources

One criterion was used to screen alternatives for potential effects to historic resources:
   Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to identified historic resources?




                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   171
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Scoring was based on the following measures:
   3 = Anticipated impacts to historic resources would be low (most desirable outcome)
   2 = Anticipated impacts to historic resources would be moderate
   1 = Anticipated impacts to historic resources would be high (least desirable outcome)

Existing OR 126W Alignment
The No-Build Alternative meets or exceeds the historic resources-related criterion and is scored a 3,
low risk. The criterion is met because there would be no new construction and therefore no impacts
as a result of the No-Build Alternative.

The TSM Alternative may meet the historic-related criterion. The criterion may be met depending
on the locations of new TSM facilities such as park-and-ride lots, transit stations, and pedestrian
facilities. This alternative is scored a 3, low risk, assuming that new TSM facilities would be
constructed in a manner to avoid impacts to historic resources.

The Spot Improvement Alternative (without the Multi-use Path) may meet the historic resources-
related criterion. The criterion may be met depending on the locations of spot improvements. This
alternative is scored a 3, low risk, assuming that spot improvements would be constructed in a
manner to avoid impacts to historic resources.

The Spot Improvement Alternative with the Multi-Use Path Design Option may meet the historic
resources-related criterion. The criterion may be met depending on the locations of spot
improvements and the new multi-use path. This assumes that the multi-use path would only be
constructed where impacts are avoidable, and would not extend the full alignment length. This
alternative is scored a 2, moderate risk, assuming that improvements would be constructed in a
manner to avoid or minimize impacts to historic resources but acknowledging that constructing a
multi-modal path along the existing OR 126W alignment has some possibility of affecting historic
resources.

The Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative (both the Primary Dike (Earth / Rock) Alternative and
Piers Design Option) are scored a 2, moderate risk. The widening of OR 126W could impact
historic resources.

The Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative (both the Primary Dike (Earth / Rock) Alternative and
Piers Design Option) are scored a 2, moderate risk for the historic resources-related criteria. The
widening of OR 126W to four lanes has a greater probability of affecting historic resources than the
Three-Lane Alternative.

Southern Route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads
The Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative is scored a 2, moderate


    172   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


risk, for the historic resources related-criterion because a number of potential historic resources are
located adjacent to the southern route and there is some risk that widening could affect these
historic resources. This assumes that efforts would be made to avoid and minimize impacts to
historic resources.

7.3.4. Transportation
Alternatives were screened using the following transportation related criteria:
    Reduce potential conflict points such as intersections and driveways
    Improve pedestrian safety and accessibility
    Improve bicycle safety and accessibility
    Improve overall traffic safety
    Improve east/west vehicle capacity
    Improve mobility along corridor, including freight
    Support public transit service
    Improve emergency vehicle response time
    Minimize impacts to the railroad for freight movements
    Strive to meet ODOT mobility standards
    Minimize impacts to the railroad that limit opportunities for future rail transit

Using a 3-point scale, alternatives that better met the criteria or had a lower probability of impacts
received a higher score. Alternatives receiving a lower score were not anticipated to meet the criteria
or had a higher probability of impacts.

Existing OR 126W Alignment
The No-Build Alternative does not meet the transportation-related criteria because there would be
no change in facilities or programs that would improve safety or relieve congestion in the corridor.

Although the TSM Alternative optimizes the management of the current infrastructure it would not
meet the transportation-related criteria. This alternative focuses exclusively on low-cost, easy to
implement improvements or policies. It could be considered as a short-term solution that results in
immediate, visible improvements on the roadway. Many of its concepts could also be included in the
other alternatives. TSM strategies include improved illumination and delineation, advance
intersection sign, speed feedback signs, alternate mobility standards to improve the safety and
efficiency of the roadway, increasing transit ridership through the introduction of park-and-ride lots
and enhanced ride-share programs, and access management strategies and alternative mobility
standards to aid in improving the functionality of the roadway.

The Spot Improvements Alternative (without the Multi-use Path) does not meet the transportation-
related criteria. This alternative focuses on safety improvements for all users throughout the
corridor. There are mobility benefits associated with increased safety on the roadway. This
alternative could potentially provide left and right turn lanes and/or traffic signal installations at


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   173
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Huston, Ellmaker, Central, and Ken Nielsen Roads. Other spot improvements would accommodate
transit and emergency services. Many of these improvements may also be included in the other
alternatives.

The Spot Improvements Alternative with the Multi-use Path Design Option meets the
transportation-related criteria. This alternative is the same as the Spot Improvements Alternative
described above except that it includes the multi-use path for other modes of transportation to
improve safety by separating vehicular and non-vehicular traffic. This alternative could serve as an
interim solution or a long-term solution.

The Three-Lane Cross Section Causeway on Dike (Earth / Rock) Alternative received the fifth
highest score because it provides necessary mobility improvements by increasing the OR 126W
footprint to accommodate an additional travel lane as well as wider shoulders or bike lanes. The
introduction of a third lane provides more capacity on the roadway, and this lane could be used as a
left turn lane, alternating passing lane, or reversible traffic lane. System management and spot
improvements could also be implemented as applicable. This alternative would likely require the
acquisition of land to the north and/or south of OR 126W.

This Design Option for the Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative would construct a single-level
structure on piers over environmentally sensitive areas. Pedestrian and bicycle facilities could be
provided on this roadway, or they could be separated from vehicular travel. This alternative scored
high in meeting transportation-related criteria and scored better than the primary dike alternative by
potentially having less impact on environmentally sensitive areas.

The Four-Lane Cross Section Causeway on Dike (Earth / Rock) Alternative received the second
highest overall score because it provides for significant mobility improvements with a larger
footprint for OR 126W. The Design Option for the Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative, which
received the highest overall score of all of the alternatives considered, would construct a single-level
structure on piers over environmentally sensitive areas and would likely have less impact on these
areas.

Both the Four-Lane Cross Section Causeway on Dike (Earth / Rock) Alternative and its Design
Option would likely require additional right-of-way. The expanded roadway would include center
left-turn lanes in place of the median at applicable intersections. To the east of the study corridor,
the City of Eugene has identified a project for the upgrade of West 11th Avenue to a five-lane urban
arterial with bike lanes; therefore, expansion of OR 126W is consistent with other projects in the
area. This alternative and its design option scored the highest in meeting transportation-related
criteria.

Southern Route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads
The Two -Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes Alternative provides an alternate


    174   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


route for motor vehicles and/or multi-modal users to the south of OR 126W. OR 126W would
retain its two-lane cross-section, and current alignment. The alternate route would have two lanes
with three lanes at intersections for turning movements and would improve Perkins Road and
Cantrell Road. This alternate route would also include bike lanes. Because this alternative does not
significantly improve safety and congestion on OR 126W, it generally received lower scores for the
transportation-related criteria.

7.3.5. Wetlands and Water Resources
Each of the alternatives was evaluated for the wetlands and water resources-related criteria.
Identified criteria applicable to wetlands and water resources:
   Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to Fern Ridge Lake; and
   Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to other environmentally sensitive
   natural resource areas.

0HDVXUHVIRUERWKFULWHULDDUHLGHQWLILHGDV´IHZHVWHVWLPDWHGOLNHO\DGYHUVHLPSDFWVµ A low level of
anticipated impacts was scored a 3, a moderate level was scored a 2, and a high level of anticipated
impacts was scored a 1.

Fern Ridge Lake is a jurisdictional water of the state and water of the U.S. Other environmentally
sensitive natural resource areas include additional potentially jurisdictional waters include wetlands,
ditches, Coyote Creek, and other unnamed streams and drainages. Other wetland and water
resource-related environmentally sensitive natural resource areas include the Coyote Prairie North
Mitigation Bank along Cantrell Road.

Existing OR 126W Alignment
The No-Build Alternative meets or exceeds both of the wetlands and water resources-related
criteria. 7KH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary imSDFWVWR)HUQ5LGJH/DNHµ
criterion is met because there would be no new impacts to Fern Ridge Lake as a result of the No-
Build Alternative. 7KH´Avoid and minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to other
environmentally sensitive natural resource DUHDVµFULWHULRQLVDOVRPHWEHFDXVHWKHUHZRXOGEHQR
new impacts to other environmentally sensitive natural areas under the No-Build Alternative.

The TSM Alternative may meet both of the wetlands and water resources-related criteria. The
´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary LPSDFWVWR)HUQ5LGJH/DNHµFULWHULRQPD\
be met depending on the locations of new TSM facilities such as park-and-ride lots, transit stations,
and pedestrian facilities. It is likely that such new facilities could be sited without impacts to Fern
Ridge Lake. 7KH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to other
HQYLURQPHQWDOO\VHQVLWLYHQDWXUDOUHVRXUFHDUHDVµFULWHULRQPD\DOVREHPHWGHSHQGLQJRQWKH
locations of new TSM facilities.

The Spot Improvement (Multi-use Path Design Option) Alternative may meet both of the wetlands


                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   175
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


and water resource-related criteria. 7KH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary
LPSDFWVWR)HUQ5LGJH/DNHµFULWHULRQPD\EHPHWEHFDXVHLWLVDVVXPHGWKDWLPSURYHPents
(including the multi-use path) would only be constructed where direct impact to Fern Ridge Lake
could be avoided. 7KH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to other
HQYLURQPHQWDOO\VHQVLWLYHQDWXUDOUHVRXUFHDUHDVµFULWHULRQPD\Ee met if facility improvement
segments are located where wetland and water resource impacts can be avoided. This assumes that
the multi-use path would only be constructed where impacts are avoidable, and would not extend
the full alignment length.

The Three-Lane Cross Section Causeway on Dike (Earth / Rock) Alternative does not meet either
of the wetlands and water resources-related criteria. 7KH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and
temporary LPSDFWVWR)HUQ5LGJH/DNHµFULWHULRQLVQRWPHWEHFDXVHZLdening OR 126W would
impact Fern Ridge Lake. 7KH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to
RWKHUHQYLURQPHQWDOO\VHQVLWLYHQDWXUDOUHVRXUFHDUHDVµFULWHULRQZRXOGQRWEHPHWEHFDXVHZLGHQLQJ
OR 126W would likely impact environmentally sensitive wetland and water resource areas such as
remnant wet prairie habitat and other wetland and aquatic habitats.

The Causeway on Piers Design Option for the Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative partially meets
WKH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary LPSDFWVWR)HUQ5LGJH/DNHµFULWHULRQ,W
would result in short-term construction-related impacts to Fern Ridge Lake, but would minimize
operational impacts. The Causeway on Piers Design Option would result in an overall long-term
benefit to Fern Ridge Lake habitat, including net removal of fill material and providing improved
hydrologic connectivity between the north and south sides of the roadway. Construction-related
impacts associated with this design option would be mitigated by the net removal of fill material and
overall long-term benefits. 7KH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to
RWKHUHQYLURQPHQWDOO\VHQVLWLYHQDWXUDOUHVRXUFHDUHDVµFULWHULRQZRXOGQRWEHPHWVLQFHWKH
remaining alignment would match the Three-Lane Cross Section Alternative.

The Four-Lane Cross Section Causeway on Dike (Earth / Rock) Alternative does not meet either of
the wetlands and water resources-related criteria. 7KH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and
temporary impacts to Fern 5LGJH/DNHµFULWHULRQLVQRWPHWEHFDXVHZLGHQLQJOR 126W would
LPSDFW)HUQ5LGJH/DNH7KH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to
RWKHUHQYLURQPHQWDOO\VHQVLWLYHQDWXUDOUHVRXUFHDUHDVµFULWHULRQZRXOGQRWEHPHWEHFDXVHZLGHQLQJ
OR 126W would likely impact environmentally sensitive wetland and water resource areas such as
remnant wet prairie habitat, riparian forest habitat, and other wetland and aquatic habitats.

The Causeway on Piers Design Option for the Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative partially meets
WKH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary LPSDFWVWR)HUQ5LGJH/DNHµFULWHULRQ,W
would result in short-term construction-related impacts to Fern Ridge Lake, but would minimize
operational impacts. The Causeway on Piers Design Option would result in an overall long-term
benefit to Fern Ridge Lake habitat, including net removal of fill material and providing improved

    176   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


hydrologic connectivity between the north and south sides of the roadway. Construction-related
impacts associated with this Design Option would be mitigated by the net removal of fill material
and overall long-term benefits. 7KH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts
WRRWKHUHQYLURQPHQWDOO\VHQVLWLYHQDWXUDOUHVRXUFHDUHDVµFULWHULon would not be met since the
remaining alignment would match the Four-Lane Cross Section Alternative.

Southern Route along Perkins and Cantrell Roads
The Two-Lane Cross Section with Intersection Turning Lanes $OWHUQDWLYHPHHWVWKH´Avoid or
minimize adverse permanent and temporary LPSDFWVWR)HUQ5LGJH/DNHµFULWHULRQEHFDXVHWKH
southern route is located away from Fern Ridge Lake and no direct impacts would be anticipated.
Indirect impacts to Fern Ridge Lake would likely be avoided by the use of Best Management
Practices. 7KH´Avoid or minimize adverse permanent and temporary impacts to other
HQYLURQPHQWDOO\VHQVLWLYHQDWXUDOUHVRXUFHDUHDVµFULWHULRQZRXOGQRWEHPHWEHFDXVHZLGHQLQJWKH
existing roadways would likely impact environmentally sensitive wetland and water resource areas
such as remnant wet prairie habitat, riparian forest habitat, and other wetland and aquatic habitats.

7.4. Summary

The criteria evaluation indicates the series of trade-offs occurring between transportation
improvements and potential environmental effects. Facilities adding vehicular capacity score well in
the traffic/operational categories but may have a higher probability of environmental impacts. The
less extensive improvement proposals generally score in the moderate range³indicating a moderate
probability of meeting traffic objectives as well as a moderate probability of environmental impacts.
The extent of potential impacts would be analyzed in the future NEPA stage for those alternatives
recommended for further consideration.

7.5. Alternatives Recommended for Further Consideration

Alternatives that have the best SRWHQWLDOWRPHHWWKHSURMHFW·VJRDOVDQGREMHFWLYHV are recommended
for further consideration in the VWXG\·Vnext tier of screening:
    OR 126W Four-Lane Cross-Section (primary alternative plus design options)
    OR 126W Three-Lane Cross-Section (primary alternative plus design options)
    OR 126W Spot Improvements with the Multi-Use Path Design Option
    No-Build Alternative

Consideration should be given to phasing improvements to best meet the corridor transportation
needs. It is also recommended that TSM strategies be considered to supplement the possible capital
improvements. Implementation of TSM elements can help ensure more efficient use of
transportation investments in the long term and should be considered along with a package of
capital improvements. As part of a phased approach, the near term solution could involve spot
improvements on OR 126W and, as funding allows, construct the multi-use path and complete

                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   177
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


three-lane or four-lane highway improvements over time. The likelihood that any one of these
individual strategies or a combination thereof are able to address corridor transportation issues will
be analyzed and further detailed in a recommendation at the conclusion of the Corridor Plan. The
No-Build Alternative is recommended for advancement as it must be considered as a comparative
metric to the build alternatives throughout the project development and NEPA documentation
process.

7.6. Alternatives Recommended for Elimination from Further Consideration

Three alternatives are recommended for elimination from further consideration because they do not
adequately address the project·V draft goals and objectives, potentially causing environmental
impacts that outweigh the potential transportation benefit. The three alternatives recommended for
elimination scored at the low end of the criteria evaluation.

The TSM Alternative as a stand-alone alternative does not adequately address the safety and
operational problems in the corridor. As discussed in Section 7.5, TSM strategies better serve as a
supplement to other capital investments and should be considered in that capacity. Similarly, on its
own the Spot Improvements to OR 126W Alternative does not meet the project·V draft goals and
objectives, primarily scoring poorly because it provides no continuous multi-modal improvements
along the highway alignment. It too is recommended for elimination. Note that Spot Improvements
in combination with the Multi-Use Path Design Option is recommended for further consideration
and may be combined with other possible design improvements.

Lastly, the Two-Lane with Intersection Turning Lanes Southern Route Alternative would have a
moderate affect on OR 126W mobility, but would fail to address safety conditions in the highway
corridor. This is cause for elimination. The alternative is also not consistent with applicable
transportation plans and therefore rated at the low end of the alternatives scoring.


8. OUTREACH PROGRAM
For this project, ODOT outlined a thorough public involvement outreach program to actively
engage the public and key stakeholders (Appendix E: Public Involvement Plan). Through the course
of this project, ODOT has taken the time to understand multiple points of view, obtain fresh ideas
and resource materials, learn of others to include, and encourage participation from the community.
The outreach for this project has been based on the following principles:
    Understand the needs and desires of project participants;
    Encourage open and honest communication;
    Be proactive by identifying stakeholder issues and concerns early and throughout the process;
    Actively engage stakeholders in decision-making at the appropriate times, where diverse
    opinions are expected and welcomed

    178   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


    Tailor information appropriately for each audience;
    Provide sincere and continuous opportunities for input; and
    Deliver complete and accurate information in a timely manner.

8.1. Input Process

Success of this project depends on input from individuals and groups with a major stake in the
outcome of the project. The input process has included individual interviews, small group meetings,
large public meetings, regular meetings with decision makers, and informal conversations with the
public which are described in the following sections. Figure 8.1 shows how the outreach efforts are
coordinated with project decisions.

Figure 8.1. Public Involvement Process




8.2. Project Management Team

A PMT was assembled to guide the planning process and review project developments at key
milestones. Key team members include:
    Dan Fricke, Oregon Department of Transportation, Project Manager
    Lisa Nell, Oregon Department of Transportation

                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   179
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


    Savannah Crawford, Oregon Department of Transportation
    Ric Ingham, City of Veneta
    Lydia McKinney, Lane County Transportation
    Celia Barry, Lane County Transportation
    Tom Schwetz, Lane Transit District
    Scott Mansur, DKS Associates
    Peter Coffey, DKS Associates

Key milestones addressed by the PMT include:
   Project process and schedule
   Stakeholder identification
   Project Problem Statement
   Project Purpose and Need Statement
   Project Goals and Objectives
   Evaluation Criteria

8.3. Stakeholder

8.3.1. Stakeholders
Stakeholders were identified as individuals or organizations that are involved in the project, or
whose interests may be affected as a result of project execution or completion. The project team
brainstormed an initial list of potential stakeholders, and then shared that list with community
leaders to make sure that all stakeholders were identified (see 1.3.2 for the initial list of stakeholders).
The project team then interviewed individuals who represented stakeholder interests, and again
asked if there were additional stakeholders that should be identified and contacted. The result was
an extensive list of names, organizations, and contact information which was compiled into a
spreadsheet that formed the basis of the interested parties list of 400.

Public agencies were considered in the stakeholder process, and all agencies contacted in relation to
interviews or meeting invitations were helpful and interested in the project. All public agencies
contacted chose to be included in the interested parties list.

8.3.2. Interviews
Between May and August 2011, 40 stakeholder interviews were conducted to help identify key
project issues and provide focus for the specialized input groups. The goals for the interview phase
were to:
    Introduce the project to key people with accurate information
    Identify initial opinions about the project
    Listen for alternative insights and ideas
    Receive input on lessons learned by others in previous work in this corridor


    180    Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


   Introduce the concept of a draft Purpose and Need, and Goals and Objectives, statement and
   draft screening criteria
   Identify ways to communicate with various constituencies (their newsletters, meeting times,
   events)
   Develop an Interested Parties List for future communication and invitations to meetings
   Honor the core values of the International Association for Public Participation (IAP2),
   SDUWLFXODUO\YDOXH´6HHNLQSXWIURPSDUWLFLSDQWVLQGHVLJQLQJKRZWKH\SDUWLFLSDWHµ
   Build trust in our team through personal contact and conversation

A major task at the outset of the project was to identify the roles and relationships between the
many stakeholders and agencies potentially affected by this project. The PMT used the following list
as a preliminary guide for interviews.
    Residents of the area: property owners and renters
    Current and potential businesses
    Freight haulers
    Commuters
    Tourists
    Wineries
    Veneta Organizations
    Oregon Country Fair
    Bicyclists  
    Lane Economic Development Commission
    West Eugene Collaborative
    Transportation advocates
    Land use advocates
    Willamette Resources and Education Network
    Native Plant Society
    Audubon Society, Local Chapter
    Long Tom Watershed Council
    Elected Officials: City, County and State
    Public Agencies (see below for list)

In addition, the project team contacted the following agencies to ask if they would like to be
included on the interested parties list. Many representatives these agencies were also interviewed at
the outset of the project:
    US Army Corps of Engineers
    Bureau of Land Management
    Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde
    Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife
    Port of Coos Bay
    Lane Metro Partnership

                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   181
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


   Fern Ridge School District
   Lane Transit District
   Eugene Water and Electric Board
   Lane County
   City of Eugene
   City of Veneta
   City of Florence

The vast majority of individuals contacted for interviews were positive and responsive. A few people
said that the project was outside their area of focus, and only two non-profit organizations did not
respond to numerous calls and emails.

The interview process helped to identify additional stakeholders. A list of individuals and
organizations who were interviewed is included as in the Interview Summary, and a comprehensive
spreadsheet of 400 stakeholders representing over 100 agencies, businesses, and organizations is
available upon request (Appendix F: Stakeholder Database). Information in the spreadsheet includes
name, organization, contact information, if they have submitted a public comment, and what
meetings they were invited to or attended.

Key issues identified through the interviews include:
   Addressing the needs of all Corridor users
   Improving safety and accessibility
   Support enhancing economic viability
   Enhancing environmental conditions
   Minimizing impacts to property owners, residents and businesses along Corridor
   Improving multi-modal options and access

Based on the stakeholder interviews, four specialized input groups were identified. Because safety
was identified as a key concern in the interviews, representatives from the Western Lane Ambulance
District and the Siuslaw Valley Fire and Rescue were invited to a focus group (in addition, the Lane
Fire District #1 staff have provided input at the Community Forums). Each of the specialized input
groups would focus on one of the following topics:
    Corridor users that travel through the corridor, such as commuters, tourists, and freight truck
    drivers
    Multi-modal users and planners for the corridor, such as bicycle advocates and transit service
    providers
    Non-profit and agency organizations with environmental programs or regulatory authority in the
    corridor, such as conservation groups and federal and state natural resource agencies
    People who live and / or work along the corridor, such as residents and business owners




    182   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                              OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


8.4. Stakeholder Focus Groups

Focus group discussions were held with the four specialized input groups:
   Input Group #1: Moving Through the Corridor (6/28/2011)
   Input Group #2: Multi-Modal Transportation & Connectivity (7/26/2011)
   Input Group #3: An Environmental Review of Project Elements (9/22/2011)
   Input Group #4: Residents and Businesses in the Study Area (9/14/2011)

At each of the focus group meetings, the project team shared project information. Focus group
participants were asked to:
    3URYLGHIHHGEDFNRQWKHSURMHFW·Vdraft Purpose and Need and its goals and objectives.
    3URYLGHIHHGEDFNRQWKHSURMHFWFRUULGRU·VIDFLOLW\QHHGVDQGGHILFLHQFLHV
    Identify creative solutions to core challenges to addressing safety and congestion issues in the
    corridor.
    Discuss limitations and tradeoffs to addressing safety and congestion issues in the corridor.

Participation in the focus groups is summarized in Table 8.1.

Table 8.1. Focus Group Participation
                                                Number of People Contacted to        Actual Number of People
                Focus Group
                                                  Participate in Focus Group        Participating in Focus Group
Corridor users                                                  55                                14
Multi-modal transportation                                      27                                15
Environment                                                     32                                12
Residents & businesses in study area                           594                                49

All of the individuals and representatives of public agencies who were invited but could not attend
chose to continue tracking the project by receiving regular project e-updates. Key issues and
solutions identified in the focus groups are summarized in Table 8.2.

Table 8.2. Input Summary from Focus Groups
                      Input Group                                               Key Issues
#1: Moving Through the Corridor (6/28/2011)                   Consider critical public safety issues first
                                                              Improve safety and accessibility for recreation
                                                              users
                                                              Improve safety for bicyclists
                                                              Seek opportunities to improve habitat along
                                                              Corridor improvements
                                                              Mitigation strategies are essential
                                                              Coordinate this project with other community
                                                              plans and planned roadway improvement
                                                              projects



                            February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   183
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


                    Input Group                                             Key Issues
#2: Multi-Modal Transportation & Connectivity             Coordinate this project planning with previous
(7/26/2011)                                               studies and plans
                                                          Address cost issues early in project process
                                                          Improve bicycle connectivity
                                                          Consider opportunities for improved bus service
                                                          and high capacity transit
                                                          Improve safety and accessibility for recreation
                                                          users
                                                          Improve safety for bicyclists
#3: An Environmental Review of Project Elements           Improvement opportunities exist on Ken
(9/22/2011)                                               Neilsen Rd
                                                          Use a comprehensive sub-area approach to
                                                          compensatory opportunities
                                                          &RRUGLQDWHWKLVSURMHFW·VLPSURYHPHQWVZLWK
                                                          improvements from other projects
                                                          Improve connectivity opportunities for
                                                          commuters, including Bus Rapid Transit
                                                          Consider enhancements for avian habitat
#4: Residents and Businesses in the Study Area            Widen to 4 lanes
(9/14/2011)                                               Consider environmental impacts
                                                          Consider elevated structure
                                                          Concerns about tax implications and impacts to
                                                          corridor businesses
                                                          Safety is a key community concern
                                                          Decision-making process
                                                          Process to keep community informed


8.5. Community Forums

The outreach program includes holding three community forums to present project progress
information and ask for public feedback at key points in the project.

Community Forum #1: Brainstorm the Options
On October 6, 2011, the first of three community forums was held. At this first community forum,
the project team presented an overview of the project, opportunities and constraints information
and possible project options. Participants provided input on the SURMHFW·V3roblem Statement,
Purpose and Need Statement, goals and objectives, and broad range of alternatives and design
options.

Invitations to the community forum were emailed to 171 interested parties. Additional recruitment
included advertising in the Fern Ridge Review and the Register-*XDUGQRWLFHRQ)LUH6WDWLRQ·V
Reader Board, two separate inserts in Veneta utility bills, announcements in newsletters for 42


    184   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


organizations, posting on local community calendars and phone calls to organizations and
individuals. Sixty-seven people attended this first community forum. Comments from participants
were generally positive. Most common topics that people mentioned (in order of most frequently
mentioned) were:
    Safety
    Bike path
    Short term improvements
    Rail (passenger, freight)

A handout asking two specific questions was provided to meeting participants:
   What alternatives do you prefer?
   What alternatives do you prefer that are not on the list?

Responses were received from 49 participants who favored a mix of alternatives. Participants were
able to choose more than one alternative, and the most common responses to the first question
(´:KDWDOWHUQDWLYHVGR\RXSUHIHU"µ) are summarized in Table 8.3.

Table 8.3. 5HVSRQVHWR+DQGRXW4XHVWLRQ´What alternatives do you prefer?µ
                 Alternative                 No. of Responses
 Multi-Use Path                                     32
 4 Lanes                                            25
 Spot Improvements                                  19
 Transportation System Management                   12
 3 Lanes                                             4

In response to the second question ´:KDWDOWHUQDWLYHVGR\RXSUHIHUWKDWDUHQRWRQWKHOLVW"µ),
most participants noted specific improvements that were a component of the listed alternatives.
New ideas that were not included in the alternatives were:
    Passenger rail from Eugene to Veneta
    Lower speed limit
    Stop lights/Traffic signals
    Couplet (Utilizing both OR 126W and Cantrell)

Community Forum #2: Evaluate the Options (January 2012)
At this forum, the results of the screening and evaluation process will be presented. The public will
be asked for input on project alternatives and design options recommended for further study.

Community Forum #3: Choose and Option (May 2012)
At this final forum, the results of the second evaluation will be presented as well as the
recommended transportation improvement solutions for the corridor. The public will be asked for
their feedback including which options they prefer.



                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   185
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


8.6. Display Outreach and Speaking Engagements

To generate interest in the community forums and educate residents about the project, the team
GHYHORSHGGLVSOD\ERDUGVDQGFRQGXFWHG´VWUHHW-FRUQHUµVW\OHRXWUHDFKDWWKH9HQHWD+DUYHVW
)HVWLYDO5D\·V0DUNHWLQ9HQHWDDQG-HUU\·V+RPH,PSURYHPHQW&HQWHULQ:HVW(XJHQHThe
project team also responded to requests for presentations by six local organizations. These
organizations and the number of people attending the presentations in summarized in Table 8.4.

Table 8.4. Summary of Speaking Engagements
                        Organization                                Number of Attendees
Wetlands Education and Resource Center Bd.                                  8
Eugene Chamber of Commerce: Government Affairs                              18
Fern Ridge Rotary                                                           12
Kiwanis of Fern Ridge                                                       19
Veneta Chamber of Commerce                                                  30
Veneta City Council                                                         10


8.7. Email Updates

6LQFHWKHSURMHFW·VLQLWLDWLRQIRXUSURMHFt updates have been emailed to 379 interested parties(see
Appendix F for a current list of contacts):
    4/6/11 ² Project Introduction
    9/15/11 ² Community Forum Invitation
    10/19/11 ² Thank you to focus group participants
    11/14/11 ² Community Forum Summary

8.8. Project Web Site

In addition to attending community events, members of the public can stay up to date on the project
E\IROORZLQJWKHSURMHFW·VZHEVLWHDWwww.highway126.org. This site provides the reader an overview
of the project, published technical documents, public involvement meeting materials, summaries of
comments heard, and ways to provide written feedback.

8.9. Decision-Makers

The Project Management Team will consider community input, data about transportation safety and
needs, and technical studies in making their recommendations for transportation improvement
solutions in the corridor. Four public bodies will weigh in on the final decision:
    Lane County Planning Commission
    Lane County Area Commission on Transportation



    186   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


    Lane County Board of Commissioners
    Oregon Transportation Commission

8.10. Summary of Stakeholder Input

Between May and November 2011, the project has received input from over 270 stakeholders,
including participants from the interviews, focus groups, meetings, and public comments received to
date. This input is summarized below.

General Comments
    Project is on target with Purpose, Needs, Goals, and Objectives.
    Keep recreation and non-motor commuter needs as part of the forefront.
    Improve the road and improve the environment with this project.
    Know what else is going on and make logical connections with others:
    o Railroad
    o (:(%·VZDWHUSLSHOLQHWR9HQHWD
    o Eugene bike path
    o LTD plans & services
    o USACE, ODF&W, USFWS

Do the minimal things now to address safety.
The number of close calls, near misses, and clenched fists are not reflected in the data. The project
team encounters someone personally related to the fatality statistics in almost every meeting.
Examples of minimal ideas to consider include centerline reflectors, striping, lighting, rumble strips,
and bus stop safety improvements.

In the mid-term, and as soon as possible, people would like to see:
    Passing and turn lanes
    A separated bike/ped path that connects to Eugene system
    More frequent, bike-friendly buses.

There is strong disagreement on both traffic lights and speed limits as remedies.

In the long term, people would like to see the previous improvements plus:
    Widening the highway to 3-4 lanes (more prefer 4 lanes so far).
    A southern alignment for bike/ped path and alternate route at slower speed limits.
    If a 4-lane option is preferred, project should be clear how it increases safety, as well as capacity.




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   187
    OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




9. RECOMMENDED ALTERNATIVES AND NEXT STEPS
As the Corridor Plan study moves forward, the recommended alternatives will be considered in a
second tier of screening to enable better understanding of potential project solutions. This section
restates the alternatives recommended for further consideration and outlines the next steps.

9.1. Recommended Alternatives

Alternatives recommended for advancement include consideration of hybrid strategies to best meet
the corridor transportation needs. The following alternatives are recommended:
    OR 126W Four-Lane Cross Section (both the primary alternative and the design option)
    OR 126W Three-Lane Cross Section (both the primary alternative and the design option)
    OR 126W Spot Improvements with the Multi-Use Path Design Option
    No-Build Alternative

It is also recommended that TSM strategies be considered to supplement the possible capital
improvements. Implementation of TSM elements can help ensure more efficient use of
transportation investments in the long term and should be considered along with the package of
capital improvements. As part of a phased approach, the near term solution could involve spot
improvements on OR 126W and, as funding allows, the multi-use path with long term construction
of the selected highway widening improvements. The likelihood that any one of these individual
strategies or a combination thereof are able to address corridor transportation issues will be analyzed
and further detailed in a recommendation at the conclusion of the Corridor Plan study. The No-
Build Alternative is recommended for advancement as it must be considered as a comparative metric
to the build alternatives throughout the project development and NEPA documentation process.

9.2. Next Steps

The remaining alternatives will be taken through a more rigorous Tier 2 screening process. Concept
design drawings will be developed for these alternatives with sufficient detail to allow for an
evaluation of each alternative against applicable ODOT and County design standards. These sketch
level drawings will incorporate Practical Design6 principles to address identified deficiencies and/or
needs and will provide the basis for planning-level cost estimates for construction and right-of-way
acquisition. This will include preliminary horizontal alignments so that constraints and key project
issues can be identified.


6
   Practical  Design  is  the  philosophy  that  acknowledges  funding  limitations  and  tries  to  identify  reasonably-sized  projects  that  
improve  safety  and  operational  conditions  over  the  existing  situation.  


       188     Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Based on the updated description of the alternatives advanced into the Tier 2 screening, the
evaluation process, recommendations, and priorities, the team will use the evaluation criteria to
narrow the remaining alternatives to a preferred alternative. A plan will be developed with priorities
for implementing transportation improvements and determining short, medium, and long-range
actions from a list of identified measures.

A Corridor Plan will be prepared. The Plan will document the findings of the work performed and
will include a summary of the existing and future No-Build conditions, environmental background
research, summary of the concepts considered (advanced and dismissed), and the public outreach
program. Once the PMT concurs with the Corridor Plan, the Plan will be presented to decision-
makers. Upon Plan approval, comprehensive plan amendment applications will be prepared, as
necessary, for use by local agency staff.

The results of the Corridor Plan will also be used by ODOT to identify the type of NEPA
Environmental Documentation (Class 1, 2 or 3) ultimately required to select a preferred alternative.
The Corridor Plan will provide information that will support and facilitate development of NEPA
documentation LQWKHSURMHFW·VQH[WSKDVH. It is important to note that during the NEPA
documentation phase of the project, modifications could be made to project limits. If project limits
are extended, ODOT would need to consider agency coordination, regulations and environmental
conditions not considered in this screening level evaluation.


10.    PERMITS AND APPROVALS
The potential improvements and activities of any action will determine the need for specific permits.
In Table 10.1, permits associated with specific, protected or regulated resources (e.g., endangered
species, floodplains, or wetlands) are labeled as ´1Rµ if the resource is not present in the project
study area and would not require a permit, and ´Yesµ RU´3RVVLEOHµif the resource is present and
may or would likely require a permit. The project should be designed, to the extent practicable, to
avoid and minimize impacts to natural and cultural resources.




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   189
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan



Table 10.1. Possible Permits Required
                           Type of Permit/Approval                              Permit Necessary
Access Permit or Temporary Easement (will not be known until Design         Possible
stage)
Endangered Species Act Permits                                              Possible
Floodplain Permits                                                          Yes
Corps of Engineers Permits (Section 10 and/ or 404)                         Yes
DSL Fill and Removal Permits                                                Yes
Historical/Cultural Resources Approval                                      Yes
Air Quality (a permit will not be procured for this)                        Possible
Land Use Action(s)                                                          Possible
Magnuson-Stevens Act Clearance                                              Yes
Materials Source Permit (will not be known until design stage)              Yes
Migratory Bird Treaty Act and Bald Eagle Protection Act                     Yes
Noise                                                                       Yes
NPDES 1200-CA and MS4 Permits ² 401 Water Quality                           Yes
ODFW Incidental Take Permit                                                 Possible
Section 4(f) & 6(f) Clearance                                               Yes
Solid Waste Letter Authorization Permit                                     Possible
6WRUPZDWHU3HUPLWFRYHUHGXQGHU2'27·VSURJUDP-wide NPDES                        Yes
stormwater permit)
UST decommissioning Notification                                            Possible
Utility Permits (will not be known until design stage)                      Possible
Wastewater Permit (covered under ODOT's program-wide NPDES                  No
stormwater permit)




    190   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




11.     GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS, ABBREVIATIONS, AND TERMS
ADT: Average Daily Traffic: The total traffic volume during a given period (1-365 days) divided by
the number of days in that period
Area of potential effect (APE): The study area defined for identifying and assessing historical and
archaeological resources. This area may not coincide precisely with the area used to assess project
impacts on other resources.
Best management practice: A process or activity that is generally acknowledged to be most cost-
effective at achieving a given outcome.
CO: Carbon monoxide
Cultural resources: A term that collectively refers to historical and archaeological resources.
Cultural resources are broadly divided into the historic built environment (buildings, structures and
objects), archaeological sites, and defined features or areas that are important to maintaining cultural
identity.
Cumulative effect (impact): An impact from a project that is created when impacts from other
past, present, and reasonably foreseeable future actions are added together. Cumulative effects can
result from individually minor but collectively substantial actions that take place over a period of
time.
dB: Decibel
Direct effects: Effects that are caused by a project action and that occur at the same time and place
as the action.
FHWA: Federal Highway Administration
Floodplain: A flat or nearly flat area adjacent to a stream or river that is subject to periodic flooding
during high stream/river flows.
Indirect effects: Effects that are caused by an action but that are later in time or farther removed in
distance, but that are still reasonably foreseeable effects of the action. Indirect effects may include
induced growth; changes in land use or population patterns; and effects on air, water, and
ecosystems.
Multi-use path: A path that accommodates more than one mode of travel or type of use. In this
study, a multi-use path is typically a path that accommodates both bicyclists and pedestrians.
National Register of Historic Places (National Register): This official list of historic places
ZRUWK\RISUHVHUYDWLRQLVSDUWRIWKH1DWLRQDO3DUN6HUYLFH·VSURJUDPWRFRRUGinate and support
SXEOLFDQGSULYDWHHIIRUWVWRLGHQWLI\HYDOXDWHDQGSURWHFW$PHULFD·VKLVWRULFDQGDUFKDHRORJLFDO

                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   191
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


resources as part of our national heritage. The National Register and the efforts of the National Park
Service to develop and maintain the Register are authorized by the National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966.
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA): Enacted in 1970, the National Environmental
Policy Act requires federal agencies to integrate environmental values into their decision making
processes by considering the environmental impacts of their proposed actions and reasonable
alternatives to those actions. To meet this requirement, federal agencies prepare a detailed statement
known as an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) reviews and comments on EISs prepared by other federal agencies, maintains a national filing
system for all EISs, and assures that its own actions comply with NEPA.
No-Build Alternative: The alternative under which the proposed project will not be built. The No-
Build Alternative is carried through the NEPA process and analyzed for effects as a way to formally
FRPSDUHWKHHIIHFWVRIWKHSURSRVHGSURMHFW·VEXLOGDOWHUQDWLYHVZLWKZKDWLVOLNHO\WRKDSSHQLIQRQH
of these project alternatives is constructed. Note WKDW´QR-EXLOGµGRHVnot PHDQ´GRQRWKLQJµ7KH
No-Build Alternative analysis takes into account other projects that are already planned and that are
reasonably certain to be constructed.
OAR: Oregon Administrative Rule - A rule written by an affected government agency, intended to
clarify the intent of an ORS
ODFW: Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, jointly manages Fish Passage (Salmon) program
with ODOT
ODOT: Oregon Department of Transportation.
OHP: Oregon Highway Plan
ORS: Oregon Revised Statute: The laws that govern the state of Oregon, passed by the legislature
and signed by the Governor
Oregon Transportation Plan: The purpose of the Oregon Transportation Plan (OTP) is to guide
the development of a safe, convenient and efficient transportation system which promotes
HFRQRPLFSURVSHULW\DQGOLYDELOLW\IRUDOO2UHJRQLDQV7KH273HVWDEOLVKHVIRXUJRDOVIRU2UHJRQ·V
future transportation system - characteristics of the system, livability, economic development, and
implementation.
Purpose and Need: A formal statement of the objective(s) of the proposed project (Purpose) and
the problem(s) that construction of the project is intended to solve (Need). The Purpose and Need
Statement is developed early in the project planning stage, and serves as a guideline for future
project efforts. For example, in evaluating alternatives, any alternative that does not meet the
SURMHFW·VSXUSRVHDQGQHHGZLOOEHGURSSHGIURPFRQVLGHUDWLRQ
Right of Way: A general term denoting land, property, or interest therein, usually in a strip,
acquired for or devoted to transportation purposes.



    192   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                          OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Section 106: Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 requires that federal
agencies consider the effects of their undertakings on historic resources. This includes identifying
any such resources³historic properties, buildings, structures, etc.³that could be affected by the
project, assessing the possible adverse effects of the project on these resources, and finding ways to
avoid, minimize, or mitigate these adverse effects.
Section 4(f): Section 4(f) of the U.S. Department of Transportation Act (49 USC 303) concerns
transportation projects that would use or impact any significant public park, recreation area, wildlife
or waterfowl refuge, or historic site. Section 4(f) applies to impacts caused by programs and policies
undertaken by the USDOT.
Section 6(f): Section 6(f) of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act is similar to Section 4(f)
but concerns only those parks and recreational facilities that have received funding through this act.
While Section 4(f) applies only to USDOT actions, Section 6(f) applies to impacts caused by
programs and policies of any federal agency.
SHPO: Oregon State Historic Preservation Office
STA: Special Transportation Area
Threatened species: Any species that is vulnerable to extinction in the near future.
Total maximum daily load (TMDL): Under the U.S. Clean Water Act, the maximum amount of a
given pollutant that a body of water can receive and still meet published water quality standards.
TSM: Transportation System Management; Action (e.g., ramp metering) or construction that
controls or improves the movement of cars and trucks on the highway system or buses on the
transit system. TSM also includes the coordination of the available transportation systems for more
efficient operation.
UGB: Urban Growth Boundary; The area surrounding an incorporated city in which the city may
legally expand its city limits
USACE: United States Army Corps of Engineers
USFWS: United States Fish and Wildlife Service
Visual quality: 7KHVXEMHFWLYHYDOXHRIDYLHZHU·VYLVXDOH[SHULHQFHRIWKHODQGVFDSHIURPDVSHFLILF
viewing point or area. Visual quality is composed of vividness ² the memorability or distinctiveness of
the landscape, unity - the degree to which the landscape is a harmonious mix of elements, and
intactness ² the degree to which the landscape is free of eyesores or elements that do not fit with the
overall landscape.
VMT: Vehicle Miles of Travel: A unit to measure travel for private vehicles, such as automobiles,
vans, pickup trucks, or motorcycles. Each mile traveled is counted as one vehicle mile regardless of
the number of persons in the vehicle.




                        February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   193
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Waters of the State/U.S.: These are waters which are protected under the Clean Water Act and by
state statute. They generally include all waters that are used or have been used for commerce, as well
as associated waters such as adjacent wetlands or impounded waters. Any project activities that
would impact such waters require permitting by the appropriate agency(ies).
Wetland: An area of land whose soil is either permanently or seasonally flooded or saturated with
moisture. Wetlands include such areas a marshes, bogs, and swamps, and provide important
ecological functions such as groundwater recharge.


12.     REFERENCES
1999 Oregon Highway Plan, Appendix C, Table 14; or Table 1 in OAR 734-051-0115

Altman, B. 1999. Conservation strategy for landbirds in lowlands and valleys of western Oregon and
       Washington. Unpublished report, American Bird Conservancy and Oregon Washington
       Partners in Flight.

Baxter, Paul, and Tobin C. Bottman. 2005. Archaeological Survey of Bridge 02262 (Oregon Highway 126,
        Oak Hill, at Milepoint 0.6), Lane County, Oregon. Museum of Natural and Cultural History,
        University of Oregon, Eugene, Museu Research Report N0. 2005-142. On file at the State
        Historic Preservation Office, Salem as Report No. 20764.

Baxter, Paul. 1981. An Archaeological Survey of the Proposed Madrona Hills Estates, Eugene, Oregon. Office
        of Contract Archaeology, Department of Anthropology, University of Oregon. On file at the
        State Historic Preservation Office, Salem as Report No. 2787.

Behle, W.H. 1942. Distribution and variation of the Horned Larks of western North America.
       University of California Publication, Zoology 46: 205-316.

Bryson, Robert U. 1995. Letter to Don Norris Associates Regarding and Archaeological Survey of
       the Greenhill Technology Park. On file at the State Historic Preservation Office, Salem as
       Report No. 15094.

Cabebe, Teresa, and Guy L. Tasa. 2008. Archaeological Survey and Exploratory Probing at Two Bridges
      (02262 and 08370) along Oregon Highway 126, Lane County. Museum of Natural and Cultural
      History, University of Oregon, Eugene, Museum Research Report N0. 2008-008. On file at
      the State Historic Preservation Office, Salem as Report No. 21724.

Cheatham, Richard D. 1988. Late Archaic Settlement Pattern in the Long Tom Sub-Basin, Upper Willamette
       Valley, Oregon. University of Oregon Anthropological Papers No. 39, Eugene.


      194   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                            OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


City of Eugene. 2010. Eugene Code, Chapter 9 Land Use, Wetland Buffer Overlay Zone 9.48.
        September 15, 2010.

City of Venenta. 2009. Veneta Comprehensive Plan Ordinance No. 416. Updated November 2009.

City of Venenta. 2010. Veneta Land Development Ordinance No. 493. Adopted January 2010.

Collins, Lloyd R. 1951. The Cultural Position of the Kalapua in the Pacific Northwest. Unpulishe M.S. Thesis
        in Anthropology, University of Oregon, Eugene.

Connolly, Thomas J. 1987. Archaeological Survey of a Revised Alignment for the West 11th-Garfield St. Section
      of the Florence-Eugene Highway (OR 126W). Oregon State Museum of Anthropology, University
      of Oregon, Eugene. On file at the State Historic Preservation Office, Salem as Report No.
      8213.

Connolly, Thomas J. 1998. Archaeological Survey of a Modified Alignment of the West Eugene
      Parkway (West 11th-Garfield Section) Florence-Eugene Highway (OR 126W), Lane County,
      Oregon. Oregon State Museum of Anthropology, University of Oregon, Eugene. On file at
      the State Historic Preservation Office, Salem as Report No. 16504.

DKS Associates. 2011. Technical Memorandum #1, OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ²
     Transportation Review of Plans, Policies, Regulations, and Standards.
DKS Associates. 2011. Technical Memorandum #2, OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ² Existing
     Transportation Conditions.

DKS Associates. 2011. Technical Memorandum #8, OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ² Future
     Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis.

DKS Associates. 2011. Technical Memorandum #9, OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan ² Develop
     and Evaluate Alternatives.

Environmental Science and Assessment, LLC. 2011. Biological Resources Plans, Policies,
       Regulations and Standards Review Memorandum for the Highway 126 Fern Ridge Corridor
       Plan Project. June 8, 2011. Portland, Oregon.

Environmental Science and Assessment, LLC. 2011. Wetlands and Water Resources Plans, Policies,
       Regulations and Standards Review Memorandum for the Highway 126 Fern Ridge Corridor
       Plan Project. June 8, 2011. Portland, Oregon.

Eugene-Springfield Metropolitan Area General Plan 2004 Update. Adopted 2004.



                         February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report    195
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Federal Register for January 25, 2000 (65 FR 3875). Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants;
        Endangered Status for Erigeron decumbens var. decumbens (WillDPHWWH'DLV\DQG)HQGHU·V%OXH
        Butterfly (Icaricia icarioides fenderi) and Threatened Status for Lupinus sulphureus ssp. kincaidii
        .LQFDLG·V/XSLQH Final Rule. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

Federal Register for March 10, 2009 (74 FR 10412). Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
        Plants; Designation of Critical Habitat for the Oregon Chub (Oregonichthys crameri); Proposed
        Rule. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

Federal Register for October 31, 2006 (71 FR 63862). Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
        3ODQWV'HVLJQDWLRQRI&ULWLFDO+DELWDWIRUWKH)HQGHU·VEOXHEXWWHUIO\Icaricia icarioides fenderi),
        Lupinus sulphureus ssp. kincaidii .LQFDLG·VOXSLQHDQGErigeron decumbens var. decumbens
        (Willamette daisy). Final Rule. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

Federal Register for September 2, 2005 (70 FR 52630). Endangered and Threatened Species:
        Designation of Critical Habitat for 12 Evolutionarily Significant Units of West Coast Salmon
        and Steelhead in Washington, Oregon, and Idaho. National Marine Fisheries Service.

Federal Register for September 26, 2005 (70 FR 56212). Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
        Plants; Designation of Critical Habitat for the Bull Trout; Final Rule. U.S. Fish and Wildlife
        Service.

Federal Register for September 30, 1988 (53 FR 38448). Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
        Plants; Final Endangered Status for Lomatium bradshawii (%UDGVKDZ·V/RPDWLXP). Final Rule.
        U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

Finley, Aimee A. 2002. Results of an Archaeological Survey of the Lanen Substation, Lane County, Oregon.
        Applied Archaeological Services, Portland. On file at the State Historic Preservation Office,
        Salem as Report No. 17965.

Lane County. 2002. Lane County Code Chapter 12, Comprehensive Plan. Updated September 2002.

Lane County. 2005. Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan. Updated January 2009.

Lane County. 2007. Lane County Code Chapter 10, Zoning. Updated September 2007.

Lane County. 2007. Lane County Code Chapter 16, Rural Comprehensive Plan and Rural Zoning.

Lane County. 2009. Lane County Zone and Plan Map Viewer. Available online at
      http://apps.lanecounty.org/LaneCountyPlanMaps/. Accessed June 2011.



    196   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                             OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Lane County. 2009. Lane County Zone and Plan Map Viewer. Available online at
      http://apps.lanecounty.org/LaneCountyPlanMaps/.

Marshall, D. B., M. W. Chilcote, and H. Weeks. 1996. Species at Risk: Sensitive, Threatened and
       Endangered Vertebrates of Oregon. 2nd edition. Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife.
       Portland, Oregon.

Minor, Rick. 1978. A Survey for Cultural Resources in Portions of the Fern Ridge Reservoir Area, Lane County,
       Oregon. Department of Anthropology, University of Oregon, Eugene. On file at the State
       Historic Preservation Office, Salem as Report No. 213.

Musil, Robert R. 2004a. Cultural Resource Survey of the Trinity Terrace Development, City of Veneta, Lane
        County, Oregon. Heritage Research Associates Letter Report No. 04-9, Eugene.

Musil, Robert R. 2004b. Cultural Resource Survey of the Hunter Heights Development, City of Veneta, Lane
        County, Oregon. Heritage Research Associates Letter Report No. 04-10, Eugene.

Musil, Robert R. 2005. Cultural Resources Survey of the Proposed Marsh Enhancements in Eastern Fern Ridge
        Reservoir, Lane County, Oregon. Heritage Research Associates Letter Report No. 05-47, Eugene.

Musil, Robert R. 2006. Archaeological Survey and Site Relocation Project Fern Ridge Reservoir, Lane County,
        Oregon. Heritage Research Associates Report 295, Eugene.

Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). 2011. Web Soil Survey. Available online at
       http://websoilsurvey.nrcs.usda.gov/. Accessed June 2011.

NatureServe. 2008. NatureServe Explorer: An online encyclopedia of life (web application). Version
       7.0. NatureServe, Arlington, Virgina. Available HUhttp://www.natureserve.org/explorerUH
       (Accessed: September 3, 2008).

2·1HLOO%ULDQDQG7KRPDV-&RQQROO\ 2006 . Pedestrian Survey of the West 11th-Garfield (West Eugene
       Parkway) Project, Lane County, Oregon. Oregon State Museum of Anthropology, University of
       Oregon, Eugene, Report No. 2006-121. On file at the State Historic Preservation Office,
       Salem as Report No. 20818.

ODFW. 1992. Long Tom Subbasin Fish Management Plan. March 1992.

ODFW. 2006. The Oregon Conservation Strategy, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, Salem,
    Oregon.

ODFW. 2009. Draft Fern Ridge Wildlife Area Management Plan. January 2009.

                         February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report     197
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Oetting, Albert C. 1999. Cultural Resources Inventory Report for the Williams Communications, Inc. Fiber
       Optic Cable Route, Lane BPA Substation to Cascade Pacific Industries, Inc., Lane County, Oregon.
       Heritage Research Associates Report No. 221, Eugene.

Oregon Biodiversity Information Center (ORBIC). 2011. Data system search for rare, threatened
      and endangered plants and animals in the project vicinity. June 28, 2011.

Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW). 1992. Long Tom Subbasin Fish Management
      Plan. March 1992.

Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW). 2009. Draft Fern Ridge Wildlife Area
      Management Plan. January 2009.

Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW). 2010. Oregon Chub Investigations, Annual
      Progress Report, Fish Research Project, Oregon.

Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT). January 2011. Analysis Procedures Manual.

Oregon Flora Project. 2010. Rare Plant Field Guide. Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon.
      HUhttp://www.oregonflora.org/rareplants/index.php?#srUH

Oregon Natural Heritage Information Center (ORNHIC). 2007. Rare, Threatened and Endangered
      Species of Oregon. Oregon Natural Heritage Information Center, Oregon State University,
      Portland, Oregon. 100 pp.

Oregon Natural Heritage Information Center (ORNHIC). 2009. Oregon Threatened or Endangered
      Plant Field Guide. Institute for Natural Resources.
      HUhttp://oregonstate.edu/ornhic/plants/view_plants2.phpUH.

Otak, Inc. 2011. Acquisitions and Displacements Plans, Policies, Regulations and Standards Review
       Memorandum

Otak, Inc. 2011. Air Quality Plans, Policies, Regulations and Standards Review Memorandum

Otak, Inc. 2011. Energy Plans, Policies, Regulations and Standards Review Memorandum

Otak, Inc. 2011. Environmental Justice Plans, Policies, Regulations and Standards Review
       Memorandum




     198   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                           OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Otak, Inc. 2011. Land Use and Prime Agricultural Lands Plans, Policies, Regulations and Standards
       Review Memorandum

Otak, Inc. 2011. Noise Plans, Policies, Regulations and Standards Review Memorandum

Otak, Inc. 2011. Parks and Recreation Resources / Section 4(f) and Section 6(f) Plans, Policies,
       Regulations and Standards Review Memorandum

Otak, Inc. 2011. Socioeconomics, Policies, Regulations and Standards Review Memorandum

Otak, Inc. 2011. Utilities Plans, Policies, Regulations and Standards Review Memorandum

Otak, Inc. 2011. Visual and Aesthetic Resources Plans, Policies, Regulations and Standards Review
       Memorandum

Otak, Inc. 2011. Water Resources Plans, Policies, Regulations and Standards Review Memorandum

Pacific Habit Services, Inc. (PHS, Inc.). 2005. Eugene Local Wetlands Inventory. Available online at
        http://www.oregon.gov/DSL/WETLAND/lwi_disclaimer_agreed.shtml. Accessed June
        2011.

Palmer, Sara E. 2010. A Cultural Resources Survey of the City of Veneta Water Delivery System, Lane County,
       Oregon. Cultural and Historical Resources Consulting, Eugene. On file at the State Historic
       Preservation Office, Salem as Report No. 23751.

Pettigrew, Richard M. 1983. Report on the Archaeological Survey of the Proposed West 11th-Garfield Street
        Section, Florence-Eugene Highway, Lane County, Oregon. Oregon State Museum of Anthropology,
        University of Oregon, Eugene, Report No. 5411. On file at the State Historic Preservation
        Office, Salem as Report No. 5411.

Scientific Resources, Inc. (SR, Inc.). 1994. West Eugene Wetland Conservation Plan Inventory.
        Available online at http://www.oregon.gov/DSL/WETLAND/lwi_disclaimer_
        agreed.shtml. Accessed June 2011.

Southard, Michael D. 1996. West Greenhill Wetland Restoration and Enhancement. Eugene District,
       Bureau of Land Management. On file at the State Historic Preservation Office, Salem as
       Report No. 15570.

StreamNet. 2011. Data Query conducted June 7, 2011. www.streamnet.org




                         February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   199
 OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan


Toepel, Kathryn A. 1985. Archaeological Survey in the Long Tom Sub-basin, Upper Willamette Valley, Oregon.
       Oregon State Museum of Anthropology, University of Oregon, Eugene. On file at the State
       Historic Preservation Office, Salem as Report No. 6677.

Transportation Research Board. 2000. 2000 Highway Capacity Manual, Washington, D.C.

Tveskov, Mark. 1994. Archaeological Survey of West Eugene Parkway/West 11th NCL Wetland Mitigation
      Sites, Lane County. Oregon State Museum of Anthropology, University of Oregon, Eugene.
      On file at the State Historic Preservation Office, Salem as Report No. 14452.

U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE). 1997. Fern Ridge Operational Management Plan Section
       2.9 ² Shoreline Management. November 1997.

U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). 1982. National Wetlands Inventory website. U.S.
        Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington, D.C. Available online at
        http://www.fws.gov/wetlands/. Accessed June 2011.

U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). 1982. National Wetlands Inventory website. U.S.
        Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington, D.C. Available online at
        http://www.fws.gov/wetlands/.

U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). 2007. Recovery Plan for the Pacific Coast Population of
        the Western Snowy Plover (Charadrius alexandrinus nivosus).

U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). 2011. Federally Listed, Proposed, Candidate Species and
        Species of Concern Under the Jurisdiction of the Fish and Wildlife Service Which May
        Occur Within Lane County, Oregon. Updated May 28, 2011.

USFWS. 1993. %UDGVKDZ·V/RPDWLXPLomatium bradshawii) Recovery Plan. Portland, Oregon.
     August 1993.

USFWS. 2006. Recovery Outline for Lupinus sulphureus ssp. kincaidii .LQFDLG·VOXSLQH Portland,
     Oregon. March 2006.

USFWS. D6SHFLHV)DFW6KHHW%UDGVKDZ·V'HVHUW3DUVOH\Lomatium bradshawii). Updated
     September 22, 2008.
     Uhttp://www.fws.gov/oregonfwo/Species/Data/BradshawsLomatium/U

USFWS. 2008b. Species Fact Sheet, Willamette Daisy (Erigeron decumbens var. decumbens).
     Updated September 22, 2008.
     Uhttp://www.fws.gov/oregonfwo/Species/Data/WillametteDaisy/U

    200   Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report | February 2012
                                                                         OR 126W: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan




Wernz, Maralee. 2007. Cultural Resources Survey for the BLM Hansen Property, Lane County, Oregon.
       Prepared for the Eugene District Bureau of Land Management, Eugene. On file at the State
       Historic Preservation Office, Salem as Report No. 21985.

Wetland Specialties, Inc. (WS, Inc.) 1998. Veneta Local Wetlands Inventory. Available online at
       http://www.oregon.gov/DSL/WETLAND/lwi_disclaimer_agreed.shtml. Accessed June
       2011.

Wetland Specialties, Inc. (WS, Inc.) 1998. Veneta Local Wetlands Inventory. Available online at
       http://www.oregon.gov/DSL/WETLAND/lwi_disclaimer_agreed.shtml.




                       February 2012 | Environmental Background and Screening Evaluation Report   201
                             APPENDIX I. HIGHWAY 126 FERN RIDGE CORRIDOR PLAN




Appendix I. Highway 126 Fern Ridge Corridor Public Involvement
Public Involvement Plan for Highway 126 Facilities Project
Public Involvement Goals
Our outreach goals for this project are grounded in the principles identified by
the International Association for Public Participation (IAP2). We will carefully
evaluate how, when and why we ask for public input, and will be clear with all
involved about the impact. We operate with respect for the intelligence of the
public and take responsibility to make the information necessary for real
involvement accessible to all. Thoughtful and active participation will result in
stakeholders who provide input based on accurate information, understand the
inherent trade-offs, and own the outcome.

This plan is being developed in close consultation with Agency staff and is based
on the following guiding principles:
    Understand the needs and desires of project participants;
    Encourage open and honest communication;
    Be proactive by identifying issues and concerns early and throughout the
       process;
    Tailor information appropriately for each audience;
    Provide sincere and continuous opportunities for input; and
    Deliver complete and accurate information in a timely manner.

Basic Components of Public Involvement

1. Develop and Implement Public Involvement Approach
     - Interview key stakeholders: Collect input on approach, identified plans
         and key documents, and suggestions for problem statement, goals, and
         evaluation criteria.
     - Coordinate with agencies: Identify agencies with current and future
         regulatory authority, as well as agencies interested in an advisory role.
         Make sure public process follows NEPA guidelines.
     - Develop communications plan: Clarify roles and how information will
         be shared with stakeholders, agencies, and media.
     - Branding and identity development, including graphic images for
         public communications.
2. Analyze Plans, Policies, Rules, Regulations and Standards
     - Coordinate with relevant agencies to gather and highlight data and
         plans.
     - Facilitate communication between public input and Technical
         Advisory Committee throughout the project.




                                                                                    1
3. Develop Statement of Problem, Needs, Goals, and Objectives (PNGO) &
   Evaluation Criteria
      - Conduct comprehensive and focused outreach to stakeholders
          (property owners, businesses, advocacy groups, etc.) ­ filling any
          potential vacuum with accurate information and strong connections to
          project staff.
      - Collect feedback on draft documents from coordinating agencies and
          key stakeholders.
4. Identify and Develop Transportation and Environmental Issues
      - Address specific "hot button" issues identified in stakeholder
          interviews, collect and respond to public input.
5. Develop and Screen Alternative Solutions
      - Provide clear communication with relevant stakeholders for complete
          comprehension of issues, collect and respond to public input.
6. Facility Plan Development
      - Collect feedback on draft documents from coordinating agencies and
          stakeholders.

Level of Public Involvement for this Project
According to the ODOT Public Involvement Resource Guide, the Highway 126
project ranks "Tier 3": Complex repair, safety, replacement or modernization
scope of work. Public involvement for this project will be comprehensive, on
going, and target a variety of key stakeholders. The spectrum of public
involvement will range from "inform" to "collaborate" according to the
principles of IAP2 (see Appendix B).

The project will develop a comprehensive Interested Parties List that identifies
individuals based on their connection to the project. All interested parties will
receive education about the project and invitations to the public forums.

We will invite key stakeholders to participate in interviews and specialized input
groups to help form the base goals and assumptions for the project. Individuals
who represent key issues and communicate back to their constituencies on a
regular basis will function as "advisors" and Cogito will consult with them in all
phases of the project.

The NEPA process is based on developing a core "Purpose, Need, Goals, and
Objectives Statement" (PNGO) and Criteria to evaluate alternatives. It is
essential to gather significant and diverse input from key stakeholders on the
PNGO, criteria, and draft alternatives. Allotted

Tools for Public Involvement



                                                                                    2
Step 1: Stakeholder Interviews help the Project team identify key issues and
provide focus for the four specialized input groups. (Spring 2011)
Step 2: Specialized Input Groups identify creative solutions to core challenges
and provide a venue for explaining limitations and tradeoffs, while connecting
with key stakeholders in a small setting. (Summer 2011)
Step 3: Community Forums build on the knowledge gained from the interviews
and input groups. They differ from the standard public meeting because they
are advertised as "community events" with an engaging agenda, pleasant
atmosphere, and amenities designed to maximize attendance and diversity, such
as food, assisted listening devices, and Spanish translation. (Fall 2011/Winter
2011/Spring 2012)
Ongoing Activities
A timeline for the following activities will be detailed in the Communications
Plan. Informed by the outcome of interviews, the Communications Plan
describes an overall strategy and structure for interacting with the public.
      Public website: We will develop a public website for this project that is
      interesting, visually pleasing, and easy to navigate and understand. The
      website will include key project information, including a brief overview of
      the project, meeting dates, other public involvement opportunities, and
      links to other relevant sites, such as the County webpage. The website
      will provide the opportunity for public comments and questions and we
      will post responses to frequently asked questions on a monthly basis.
      "Intercepts" at community events: We will coordinate and staff a project
      display at community events, talking with the public about the project
      and encouraging them to attend the public forums.
      Media communications and tracking: Proactive communication with
      media will result in accurate coverage, wide distribution of information
      about the project, and increased participation at the community forums.
      We will develop a Communications Plan to guide the process.
      Newsletters and email updates: Our interested parties list will receive
      regular communications, include frequently asked questions and
      information about upcoming meetings.
      Responding to public comments: Calls and emails about the project from
      the public will be routed to the appropriate staff person to answer the
      question or respond to the comment. Timely responses to vocal advocates
      will increase trust and credibility.
      Social media: The public involvement staff will meet with the project
      team to determine the focus, value, and purpose of potentially utilizing
      facebook and/or twitter for this phase of the project.


                                                                                  3
Content of the Specialized Input Groups
The four specialized input groups provide key information at critical points in
the project. Due to limited availability of key st+keholders in the summer,
Cogito may need to gather together multiple small groups to meet the same
goals as one Specialized Input Group. The specific issues explored in the groups
shall be based on information gathered during the stakeholder interviews. The
following subject topics to be addressed are:
       Understanding the environment: wetlands, riparian areas, and aquatics
       Access, safety, right of way, and property owner issues
       Moving through the corridor: commuters, freight, and recreation
       Multiple modes of travel: public transit, pedestrians, and bicycles

Content of the Community Forums
       COMMUNITY FORUM #1: DEVELOPING THE BASE - At this first event,
       we will present and gather input on the statement of problem, needs,
       goals, and objectives (PNGO) , evaluation criteria, initial findings, and the
       full range of potential options.
       COMMUNITY FORUM #2: EVALUATING ALL OPTIONS - We will
       present findings from 8 or fewer options, and gather input on preferred
       options.
       COMMUNITY FORUM #3: CHOOSING AN OPTION - We will present
       three or fewer preferred options, and ask the public which option they
       prefer.

How Public Outreach Relates to Specific Project Tasks
Following is a list of key project tasks and the associated public involvement for
each task:
Task 1: Project Management ­ Results of public involvement will be shared with
project team at regular meetings.
Task 2: Public Involvement Plan (PIP) ­ We will solicit input on the draft plan
from key stakeholders through interviews.
Task 3: Analyze Plans, Policies, Rules ­ We will post key documents on the
public website, and add additional items suggested by stakeholders that relate to
project scope.
Task 4: Analyze Existing Transportation Conditions ­ In Specialized Input
Group Access, safety, right of way, and property owner issues, the team will present
draft information to property owners along corridor, gather input, share with the
project team.




                                                                                     4
Task 5: Identify and Map Environmental and Land Use Issues ­ In Specialized
Input Group Understanding the environment, the team will present draft
information (including Opportunities and Constraints Mapping) to key
stakeholders, gather input, and share with project team. (August 2011)
Task 6: Develop Problem, Needs, Goals, and Objectives Statement (PNGO) and
Evaluation Criteria - The project team will share draft PNGO and criteria with
Specialized Input Group Moving through the corridor: commuters, freight, and
recreation. We will gather input, share with project team, and post additional
information on the public website. (late June 2011)
COMMUNITY FORUM #1 will include a presentation of the Statement of
Purpose, Needs, Goals and Objectives, Evaluation Criteria, and Opportunities
and Constraints mapping. In addition, the project team will present draft
alternatives. The public has the opportunity to provide input on the PNGO,
criteria, and suggest additional alternatives. (9/14/11)
Task 7: Future Travel Forecasts and Needs Analysis ­ We will share draft
information with stakeholders via newsletters, gather input, and share public
comments with project team.
Task 8: Develop and Evaluate Alternatives:
COMMUNITY FORUM #2 ­ Preliminary Evaluation of Alternatives: At this
event the project team will share findings on 8 alternatives and gather input from
the public. The input from this meeting will help the project team to choose 3
alternatives to further refine. (12/7/11)
COMMUNITY FORUM #3 - Refined Evaluation of Alternatives ­ The project
team will present findings from an evaluation of 3 or fewer alternatives and
gather input on the preferred option. (4/18/12)
Task 9: Facility Plan Development ­ The draft plan will describe the costs and
benefits of the three alternatives and suggest a preferred alternative. Elected
officials will choose the final alternative based on this report.
Task 10: Plan Adoption ­ The public will be notified about public hearings and
opportunity to comment.

Team Roles and Responsibilities
Cogito is responsible for leading and coordinating the public involvement for
this project, including outreach to stakeholders, receiving and managing public
inquiries, developing the content of public outreach, drafting agendas and
organizing logistics for events, and reporting the results of public outreach to the
project team.
DKS manages the project content and process, and is the main communicator
with ODOT staff and the project team.


                                                                                   5
The ODOT project manager provides direction on project goals, objectives, and
deliverables. In most cases, ODOT staff will be the public face of the project. The
ODOT public information officer is responsible for connecting with the media.
Wannamaker Consulting provides environmental expertise to key stakeholders
at key points in the process, in concert with public involvement staff.
The Communications Plan developed by Cogito will clarify methods for
developing and reviewing public outreach materials, including website content,
newsletters, email updates, and public announcements.

Outcomes of Public Involvement
      Citizen Engagement and Communications Plan
      Comprehensive database of stakeholders, including email, affiliations,
      phone number, meetings attended, and comments submitted.
      Branding and identity development, including graphic images for
      website, email communications, display boards, and public documents, to
      the extent allowed by ODOT.
      Regular synopsis of media articles in local press relating to the project and
      media reports on the project.
      Website development and maintenance. Website can receive questions
      and comments about the project, and includes notice of upcoming public
      events, current project description, background documents, public
      meeting reports, and contact information.
      Regular reports on stakeholder perspectives and outcome of stakeholder
      outreach.
      Display boards and talking points useful for ongoing education about the
      project.
      Regular updates to interested parties in electronic newsletter format,
      mailed to those who prefer printed correspondence.
      Notice for all public meetings, including website posting, email, and/or
      phone or hard copy mailing. Ensure that notice is detailed enough to meet
      NEPA requirements.
      Public meeting and interview summaries and analysis, detailed enough to
      meet NEPA requirements.
      Public comment summaries and analysis, detailed enough to meet NEPA
      requirements.




                                                                                  6
Appendix A: Preliminary Stakeholder List

A major task at the outset will be to refine the roles and relationships between
the many stakeholders and agencies impacted by this project. Following is a list
of potential stakeholders, and one of the first tasks in the public involvement
plan is to develop and circulate a refined list of interested parties.

Potential stakeholders
Property owners, homeowner organizations
Current and potential businesses
Freight haulers
Commuters
Tourists
Wineries
Veneta organizations: civic groups, seniors, youth, communities of color,
Neighbors for Responsible Growth
Country Fair Board
Boaters: power, sail, paddle
Bicyclists
Disabled populations
Crow Grange
Lane Economic Development Commission
West Eugene Collaborative
Low-income residents
Transportation advocates
Land use advocates
Willamette Resources and Education Network
Native Plant Society
Audubon Society, Local Chapter

Potential involved agencies
US Environmental Protection Agency
US Army Corps of Engineers
Bureau of Land Management
Federal Emergency Management Administration
US Fish and Wildlife Service
National Marine Fisheries Service
Federal Highway Administration
Bonneville Power Administration
Natural Resource Conservation Service
Confederated Tribes of the Siletz Indians
Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs
Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde


                                                                                   7
Oregon Department of Transportation
Oregon Division of State Lands
Oregon State Historic Preservation Office
Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife
Oregon Parks and Recreation Department
Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Eugene School District ­ 4J
Fern Ridge School District
Lane Transit District
Lane Council of Governments
Housing and Community Services Agency of Lane County
Eugene Water and Electric Board
Lane Electrical Cooperative
Emerald People's Utility District
Lane County
City of Eugene
City of Veneta




                                                         8
                                                                                             
  

MEETING SUMMARY
Community Forum #1: Brainstorm the Options
Thursday, October 6th, 6-8 pm, Elmira High School


Introduction
The Highway 126: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan will evaluate and identify a range of
alternatives to enhance the safety and function of Highway 126 between the cities of
Veneta and Eugene. The project goal is to develop a state system-level transportation
corridor plan with a twenty-year horizon. The planning process is designed to
incorporate a wide variety of perspectives and identify solutions that are realistic and
have public support. Interviews, focus groups, connections with community groups, and
public forums are all part of the process. This first community forum provided input
into key documents that will be used to evaluate alternatives throughout the course of
the project. A total of 67 community members attended the meeting.

Meeting Goals
      ·   Feedback on Project Needs, Goals, Objectives, Criteria
      ·   Make sure we have alternatives on the table people want studied
      ·   Collect other ideas for function and safety improvements
      ·   Educate about the project and related transportation issues

Meeting Agenda
6:00      Dinner
6:05      Welcome by Dan Fricke, Project Manager
          Oregon Department of Transportation
6:20      Project process, decision-making, and future phases
          Ellen Teninty, Cogito, Project Team
6:30      Presentation Part 1: Existing conditions and project purpose and goals
          Scott Mansur and Peter Coffey, DKS Associates, Project Team
          Discussion on project purpose and goals
6:45      Presentation Part 2: Alignments and options
          Discussion on alignments and improvement options
8:00      Adjourn




                                                                                      1  
Existing Conditions and Project Purpose and Goals

Scott described the project study area as well as the results of recent traffic and collision
studies (view the presentation at http://highway126.org/2011/10/community-forum-
brainstorm-the-options/). This stretch of highway serves approximately 14,500 average
daily vehicle trips, and increases to 18,000 daily trips in the summer months. The overall
crash rate is slightly higher than similar facilities throughout Oregon, and has an average
of two fatalities of debilitating injuries per year.

Scott discussed the role of the project purpose, need, and goals statement in developing
and refining alternatives for improving the highway. Participants read and wrote
comments on a handout on project purpose and goals.

Handout Results: Comments were generally positive: out of 42 responses, only two were
clearly negative. Most common topics that people mentioned (in order of most
frequently mentioned):
    · Safety
    · Bike path
    · Short term improvements
    · Rail (passenger, freight)

For a copy of the handouts, and a complete summary of all responses, visit our website at
highway126.org, Project Documents, Community Forum: Brainstorm the Options,
Forum #1 Handout Results.

Alignments and Alternatives

Scott explained the three alignments (northern, existing, and southern), as well as
options within each alignment. He stressed that the concepts can be mixed and
matched, and that some are long term and other solutions are near term (view the
presentation at http://highway126.org/2011/10/community-forum-brainstorm-the-
options/).

Handout Results: The 49 responders favored a mix of alternatives. Participants were
able to choose more than one alternative, and the most common responses to the first
question: "What alternatives do you prefer?" were:

Answer to question: What              Number of
Alternatives do you prefer?           Responses

Multi-Use Path                                  32

4 Lanes                                         25

Spot Improvements                               19

Transportation System                           12
Management

3 Lane                                           4




                                                                                          2  
In response to the question, "What alternatives do you prefer that are not on the list?"
most participants noted specific improvements that were a component of the listed
alternatives. Ideas that were not included in the alternatives were:
    · Passenger rail
    · Lower speed limit
    · Stop lights/Traffic Signals
    · Couplet (Utilizing both OR 126 and Cantrell)

Table Discussions

Participants discussed the alternatives with other community members seated at their
table. They then completed the second handout, which asked participants to identify
which alternatives they preferred.

Meeting Conclusion

The project team thanked participants for attending, and asked them to turn in their
comments. The next Community Forum: Evaluate the Options will be on Tuesday,
January 24th, from 6-8 pm in the Elmira High School cafeteria.

Participant comments and questions during the meeting:

Q. What do elevated roadways look like? A: Like a causeway.

Q. Would it be cheaper to invest in just OR 126 and not improve Cantrell? A: Maybe ­
cost estimates will be part of the next phase of the project.

Q. Can we mix scenarios? A: Yes.

Q. How about a bike path on Cantrell? A: Yes, this is an alternative.

Q. Please explain Section 4F and how much this study is costing. A: Section 4F is a
federal rule that requires avoidance or mitigation of recreational and historic resources.
This study is costing about $500,000 and includes more in-depth environmental
assessment and public involvement process than ODOT usually does.

Q. How did you define the study area? Eugene to Veneta ­ we are focusing on the rural
areas, but also working closely with both cities.

Q. You mentioned it is a 20-year plan, can you speak to the projected traffic in 20 years,
and the level of service of 126? A: Over the next 20 years, we are estimating 40% more
traffic than today. As we look at alternatives, we will be looking at how to meet those
needs. In terms of looking at the level of service, we are not at that point yet in
screening.

Even with 4 lanes, traffic can still move slowly. I think that spot improvements are a
good plan, and make a separate route for people walking and biking.




                                                                                            3  
If the road were widened to three lanes, it would give people room to pull off for
emergency vehicles. Also support the multi-use path: taking bicycles off of 126 entirely
would make the road much safer.

Q. How would you handle traffic if you did a major project during construction ­ how
would you move people around the traffic construction? A: Perhaps temporary road, but
you would still have to accommodate one lane ­ it would be complicated.

In emergency situations, only 4 lanes works.

It is a terrible section of road. Safety concerns re. passing, especially near Shady Rest.

I would like to hear more about added bus routes, trains, some other way for people in
Veneta to get to and from Eugene without automobiles. Concerned about environmental
impact to a four-lane highway on 126.

It is time to do something. 4 lanes ­ at least.

Q. I love the idea of multiple lanes, and room for bikes, but there are so many
organizations that have a say in this project. Is there any hope of moving something
forward? A: That is part of our job, and something we are working on. We are meeting
with land agencies ­ there are inter-jurisdictional hurdles to get over.

Stoplights would allow for left turns.

I love all these big and grandiose ideas, but I am more interested in the short-term
improvements. I want lights.

I do believe in the 4-lane in the long-term, but we need short term solutions now ­ stop-
lights, slowing traffic down, where the park is at Perkins Park and the business areas.

Huston Rd ­ southbound ­ there needs to be a rattle bar leading up to that stop sign.

Q. For motorcycles, it is difficult with all of the potholes ­ how do you address
motorcyclists needed? A: This is a maintenance issue. Some of the short-term
improvements may address those concerns.

Q. I'm very much in favor of a 4-lane improvement. I also ride bicycle, so a multi-
purpose lane would be good. If you conclude that a 4-lane road was doable, what is the
timeframe to have it built? A: With funding ­ 3-5 years to get through all of the design,
right of way issues, etc.

Q. Is there room for a 4-lane road right now? A: It would require an elevated structure
through some areas.

Q. I am concerned about head-on collisions. Can you have a Jersey barrier on a 2-lane
road? A: There is not a wide enough segment today to put one in. If we did the 4-lane,
we could put one in ­ but this can be problematic with turn lanes.

Short term ­ where Cantrell enters 126 heading east ­ have an acceleration merge lane.

We need jobs. Structural improvements need attention.

Q. Are there concerns that a 4-lane might be less safe? With traffic projections does 4-
lane improve safety? A: I think we have to look at the inclusion of lane barriers,


                                                                                            4  
acceleration lanes, etc. Different elements of a 4-lane highway can make it safer. There
are pros and cons of both. Speeds go up with a 4-lane highway. There are trade-offs.
But it is possible to make a 4-lane safer.

It is time to build the 4-lanes now, and a separated bike/ped facility.

Q. I am in favor of the 4-lane, but how do you funnel it back to a 2-lane at Houston. How
would that be handled? A: We would have de-acceleration lanes, and merge. We don't
want to create a bottleneck; we want to make sure it fits in other comprehensive plans.

If you look on ODOT'S website, traffic levels peaked in 2003, by 2030 the Alaska
pipeline will be dry. To claim that there will be an increase in traffic flies in the face of
physics. You need to factor in Peak Oil into the long range traffic planning. There are
many things you can do for short-term solutions, without creating more infrastructure
that cannot be maintained.

As an avid cyclist, we have an excellent access on Clear Lake, but there is not good access
parallel to 126. I would suggest that EWEB & ODOT build a facility where the pipeline
will be built. A separated path would be ideal.

I agree with the multiuse path that is separated. The roads are not wide enough ­ and it
is not fair to either user group.

There are many people that don't drive cars ­ I want to stay off of the main road. It is
scary with the trucks.

I would love to see a bike lane that came from Veneta that connected with the Fern Ridge
Bike Path in Eugene. It would be great to have that access, but I also believe we need
more busses, and availability of busses to get more people off of the road.

The usage of the Coos railway - They are going to run their trains on a schedule ­ it could
be used as a light rail into Eugene/West Eugene, when the train is not in use to reduce
traffic.

A Passenger train coming from Veneta to Eugene would be great.

My ideal scenario would be light rail service; it would get cars off the road, reduce
pollution, and be safer. It can be done!

On the bus service ­ it doesn't always work out for people given the times of service. The
buses need to run more often. And run shuttle busses, more often, that would help take
people off the road. I would take the bus if there was a shift that would work.

Use smaller buses, to go back and forth to Wal-Mart, Target, etc. If we had four small
buses, that would be perfect.

There is already an alternate route, at Cantrell. Going through that gravel section is very
scary. Just improve that road, and it would be a good alternate while working on 126.

For a project description, visit www.highway126.org

To contact the project, email Julie Fischer at julie@cogitopartners.com or
call at 541-556-6654




                                                                                               5  
                                                                                           !
!

MEETING SUMMARY
Community Forum #2: Evaluate the Options
Tuesday, January 24th, 6-8 pm, Elmira High School
Introduction

The Highway 126: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan will evaluate and identify a range of
alternatives to enhance the safety and function of Highway 126 between the cities of
Veneta and Eugene. The project goal is to develop a state system-level transportation
corridor plan with a twenty-year horizon. The planning process is designed to
incorporate a wide variety of perspectives and identify solutions that are realistic and
have public support. Interviews, focus groups, connections with community groups, and
public forums are all part of the process. This second community forum provided input
on the recommended alternatives and design options. An estimated 110 people attended
the forum, including 86 participants who signed in, 7 members of the project team, and
17 people who did not sign in.

Meeting Goals

    ·   Bring new participants up to speed
    ·   Share what has happened since the first public forum
    ·   Review the first round of environmental screening results
    ·   Present and collect input on recommended alternatives

Meeting Agenda

6:00    Dinner
6:05    Welcome by Dan Fricke, Project Manager
        Oregon Department of Transportation
6:10    Project Team Introductions and Agenda Review
        Ellen Teninty, Cogito
6:20    Presentation of Findings and Recommendations
        Scott Mansur, DKS Associates, Project Team
6:50    Questions
7:00    Small Groups: Complete and Discuss Survey
7:20    Full Group Discussion of Options
7:50    Thank you, Next Steps, Adjourn



!                                                                                      "!
Presentation of Findings and Recommendations

Scott Mansur briefly reviewed the project needs, goals, study area, and process. He then
shared what the project team learned was important to the public at the first Community
Forum in October of 2011:

    ·   Safety and Operational Improvements: signage and delineation, street lighting,
        turn lanes, and additional through lanes.

    ·   Multi-Modal Improvements: improve existing bicycle, pedestrian, and transit
        facilities, separated multi-use (such as separate bike) path, increase transit
        frequency, additional transit options.

    ·   Short Term Improvements: increased enforcement, driver feedback (speed
        feedback signs), clear signage and striping, turn lanes, signals, and street lighting.

    ·   Top Three Alternatives preferred by the public at Forum #1 held October 6, 2011:
        4-Lane, 3-Lane, and Spot Improvements with Separate Multi-Use Path.

Since the last forum, the project team conducted an environmental
screening and scoring of the alternatives, ranking eleven different options
and identifying the top 3 alternatives, plus the no-build alternative. The
environmental screening produced the same three alternatives that were
preferred by the public.

Small Groups

Ellen Teninty introduced the Forum #2 Survey to participants and encouraged people to
read the survey and discuss the issues at their tables. A graphic and description of each
alternative was provided. See page 5 for a summary of the 91 responses (79 received at
the meeting and 12 returned after the meeting. An online survey option was offered to
everyone on the interested parties list).

Table Discussions

Participants discussed the alternatives and survey questions with other community
members seated at their table.

Meeting Conclusion

The project team thanked participants for attending, and asked them to turn in their
comments. The next Community Forum in May of 2012 will present the final results of
the plan.

Participant comments and questions during the meeting:

Q. Does anyone know when the section of 126 between Eugene and Veneta was built,
and how often the opportunity to rebuild a road comes up in terms of planning purposes?
10 years, 15 years, etc. A: 5-10 years may be right. If it comes down to do the no-build



!                                                                                           #!
or spot improvement that is what we will be living with for the next 10-20 years. I am
not sure when this particular section of road was originally built.
Q. Do any of your alternatives not include Perkins Road? A: None of the preferred
alternatives include Perkins Road for car travel, just the multi-use path.
Q. What about the part between Terry and Greenhill? A: The City of Eugene is
updating their transportation plan, and that section of 126 will be evaluated during that
process.
Q. How realistic is it to put 4-lanes in environmentally? A: That is some of the stuff we
are working on with the agencies, looking at fatal flaws, and we all feel comfortable with
what we are looking at to move forward. There are opportunities to improve the
environment with many of these alternatives.
Q. None of the proposals mentioned having a median as a temporary fix ­ could we
install a median now? A: A barrier of some sort will be part of the 4-lane improvement
alternative. This could also be done through the spot treatments, but that would require
extensive shoulder widening.
Q. I am the Fire Chief of District #1. I am opposed to the median because it is hard for
emergency apparatus to travel safely. Medians can block emergency vehicles from
reaching the crashes. Do the spot improvements include medians? A: At this time they
do not. (The only recommended alternative that includes a median is the 4-lane).
Q. For your 3 and 4 lane options, is it being considered that one lane could be an HOV
(High Occupancy Vehicle) lane? A: That is something that could be considered, but
right now we are thinking of them as just travel lanes.
Q. I saw the scoring of the environmental factors, but what were the environmental
factors? What are the considerations? A: We will be providing an environmental
screening report on the website, and we can answer those questions for you at that time.
Q. There is a new bridge at Nielson, but it looks like a two lane bridge, how does that
work if you widen the road? A: It was built so that the supports could hold a 4-lane road
in the future.
Q. Each of these cross sections shows a bike path, which side would that be located on?
A: That will be part of the Tier 2 screening. No decision on North or South side yet.
Q. What consideration has been given to the increase of truck traffic between Eugene &
the Coast? A: Our Study has used a 2035 forecast for the roadway, so it has been
considered.
Q. Have you given consideration to bypassing the wetlands by using Nielson? A: We
did look at that alignment, but decided to not move forward with that option.
Q. What does it mean to consolidate driveways? A: For this phase of the project
(corridor plan) we will not be closing driveways. We are not making specific
recommendations to close driveways. It might be feasible to consider frontage roads.


!                                                                                           $!
Q. How much roadway do you have? A: About 90 feet, this could accommodate a 4-
lane configuration.
Q. Have you given thought to how to connect a bike trail to Eugene? A: It would be
desirable to connect that to the Fern Ridge Bike Path.
Q. Have you consulted with Department of State Lands about the wetland fill required
for this project? A: I'm not sure if the environmental team has done so ­ but we will
share that with Wannamaker Consultants. (For a complete report on the environmental
analysis, please visit our website: http://highway126.org/2012/02/evaluation-of-
alternatives-report/draft_or126_screening_baseline_report-2/).
Q. If the cost to build a bike trail on Cantrell is cheaper than having it as part of the road,
could that be an option? A: We have an alternative that has the path next to the
alignment, and an option to have it removed from the highway.
Q. What about the speed? Do you expect speed to be increased with these alternatives?
A: Probably not.
Q. If the 4-lane option is chosen does it need to be built on piers? A: No.
Q. About spot improvements that could happen immediately ­ I would like to see
reflectors down the middle of the road would be a huge benefit to safety. A: We will
look into that option.
Q. Is their coordination with the State Department of Tourism to bring bicycles to the
area ­ is that being considered as beneficial? A: We have been talking to the various
chambers of commerce, and know of the potential benefits.
Q. Is anybody seriously talking about light rail? A: It is not part of the alternatives right
now ­ when we start scoring the alternatives we need to make sure that we would not
impact the railroad.
For a project description, visit www.highway126.org

To contact the project, email Julie Fischer at julie@cogitopartners.com or
call at 541-556-6654




!                                                                                             %!
Survey Results

    Survey Directions:
    Read each statement below and circle the answer
    corresponding to your opinion. If you do not know or                      Results of 91 surveys: Numbers reflect % of 100.
    don't care, circle "Neutral". All questions relate to
    OR126W between Greenhill and Huston Road.                  Strongly                                                   Strongly    No survey
                                                                Agree           Agree        Neutral       Disagree       Disagree     answer
    CAPACITY
    1. Some traffic congestion (which may limit my
        travel speed and result in delays getting to my
        destination) is ok during peak travel periods                 12                26         15            27              14           4
        (example 4 PM to 6 PM)
    2. There is adequate capacity today in the 126 Fern               3                 8              9         22             55            3
        Ridge corridor to accommodate future growth
    3. Two travel lanes in each direction is necessary to            42                 25         12             8              11           2
        provide adequate capacity
    4. Widening to two travel lanes in each direction
        would lead to future economic development in                 30                 38         22             5              2            2
        Western Lane County
    5. Freight movements (trucks) are currently
        hindered traveling through and within the project            22                 37         25             11             3            1
        corridor
    SAFETY
    6. Safety improvements along the corridor should be               51                35             8              1          5            0
        implemented as quickly as possible
    7. A raised median divider is necessary to improve                    7              9         20            23              41           1
        safety along the highway
    8. It is ok to consolidate/reduce driveways if it                 10                33         40             5              9            3
        results in improved safety along the highway
    9. Left and right turn lanes at intersections and
        driveways are necessary to improve safety along              38                 41         12             4              3            1
        the highway
    PEDESTRIANS, CYCLISTS, AND TRANSIT
    10. A multi-use path for pedestrians and bicycle travel          52                 29             9          2              9            0
        should be provided as part of this project
    11. A multi-use path should be located on a different            29                 33         24             9              5            0
        alignment from the highway
    12. If it facilitates implementation of the multi-use
        path, it is ok to locate the multi-use path adjacent         23                 44         20             7               7           0
        to the Highway if a physical barrier is provided
!                                                                                                                                                 "!
    13. Widened shoulders along the highway will be
        adequate to serve pedestrian and bicycle travel             3         9           13         33            42            0
        along the corridor
    14. Safer pedestrian crossing opportunities should be
        provided along the highway                                 26        34           24          8             8            0

    15. Transit stop improvements such as street lighting,
        sidewalks and shelters would increase transit              27        40           14          8            10             1
        ridership
    16. Additional police enforcement would improve                19        26           36          11            7             1
        safety
    ENVIRONMENT
    17. Highway improvements should not impact in any
        way Fern Ridge Lake or other environmentally               11         15          32          19           22             1
        sensitive natural resources
    18. Highway improvements should strike a balance
        between transportation needs and impacting, to
        the minimum extent possible, Fern Ridge Lake or            18        42           23          9             8             1
        other environmentally sensitive natural resources
    19. This project should seek opportunities to provide
        transportation improvements and improve
        environmentally sensitive natural resources                23        36           24           7            8            2
        (including Fern Ridge Lake and wildlife area)
    IMPLEMENTATION
    20. The preferred alternative should be developed so           26        42           21          2             5            3
        that it can be implemented in phases
    21. The preferred alternative should consider options
        that have the best opportunity to receive funding          33        43           14          5             1            3

    22. WHICH ALTERNATIVE DO YOU PREFER?
    (see Appendix for handout graphics)

                                                             4- Lane    3-Lane     Spot        No Build       No survey answer
                                                                   70         18           5              1                      5
    First Choice:
                                                                   8         49           21              1                      21
    Second Choice:




!                                                                                                                                     "!
!"#$%&'()**%+,!'
#$$%!&%!'()*!%+(,)-!.$,)$/!+,0!1(0$!23!)*$!/2+04!!5$36$.)2/14!
7$,8)*$,!+66!)&/,(,8!6+,$19!!:62/$1.$,)!6+,$!1$%+/+)(2,1!2,!)*$!*(8*'+;4!!<612!1(0$19!!7(8*)(,8!2,!)*$!
*(8*'+;!+!=&1)!>!)22!0+/?4!
@+?$!)*(1!1$.)(2,!23!*(8*'+;!+!A1+3$);!.2//(02/B!'()*!6(8*)1!2,!+66!C$*(.6$1!D!0+;!+,0!,(8*)4!
E$))$/!=+/?(,8!F/$36$.)(C$G!32/!.$,)$/!+,0!1(0$1!23!/2+04!
H6$+1$!,2!6(8*)!/+(69!!I*2/)!)$/=!JK7H!(1!/$36$.)2/1!'()*!)*$!6(,$1!
5$.2==$,0$0!1%2)!(=%/2C$=$,)1L!(==$0(+)$6;L!%&)!6(8*)!/$36$.)2/1!02',!=(006$!23!/2+0!F'*$,!
0+/?!+,0!/+(,(,8!;2&!.+,M)!1$$!)*$!=(006$!23!)*$!/2+04!LF!N*+)!+O2&)!6(8*)!/+(6!)2!/$6($C$!)/+33(.PP!
H6$+1$!(=%6$=$,)!+!/+(1$0!=$0(+,!(==$0(+)$6;!32/!1+3$);4!
Q4!R2,M)!/$+66;!6(?$!=2/$!)/+33(.!1(8,+614!
S4!@+?$!1=+66!(=%/2C$=$,)1!32/!O$))$/!?+;+?!+..$11!2,!J';!+)!T2;2)$!T/$$?4!
U4!V2!%+11(,8!+662'$0!
W4!5$0&.$!1%$$0!6(=()!)2!WX4!
E$))$/!1%2)!(=%/2C$=$,)1!+/$!,$$0$0!+)!K66=+?$/4!!K,)$/(,8!QSY!$+1)!O2&,0!(1!C$/;!0+,8$/2&14!
E$8(,!'()*!1%2)!(=%/2C$=$,)1!)2!(,.2/%2/+)$!(,)2!3(,+6!W!6+,$!2%)(2,4!
V2!=+))$/!'*+)-!1*2/)>)$/=!1%2)!(=%/2C$=$,)1!F(=%/2C$0!1*2&60$/1-!/$36$.)(C$!1)/(%(,8-!)&/,>2&)1-!
)&/,!6+,$1-!%$0$1)/(+,!./211(,81-!$).G!'2&60!=+?$!+!JZ[K!(=%/2C$=$,)4!
I2)!(=%/2C$=$,)1!1*2&60!O$!1*2/)!)$/=!'()*!)*$!3(,+6!%/2\$.)!W!6+,$14!
H6$+1$!.2,1(0$/!]$,$)+!$.2,2=;!(=%/2C$=$,)14!
H6$+1$!.2,1(0$/!6$,8)*$,(,8!)*$!0$.$6$/+)(2,!)&/,!6+,$1!12!)/+33(.!.+,!=2C$!122,$/!2&)!23!)*$!)/+33(.!
1%$$0!6+,$14!
H6$+1$!.2,1(0$/!%+C(,8!T+,)/$66!52+04!
<00!%$/=+,$,)!/$36$.)2/1!02',!.$,)$/!23!/2+0'+;4!
722?(,8!+)!)*$!1*2/)!)$/=!(=%/2C$=$,)!%6+,-!)*$/$!(1!,2)!%/2C(1(2,!32/!1+3$);!(=%/2C$=$,)1!+)!
I*+0;!5$1)!R/(C$!+,0!7+?$1(0$!R/(C$4!!^!/$.2==$,0!)*+)!/(8*)!)&/,!2&)1!82(,8!'$1)!+,0!.$,)$/!6$3)!
6+,$!82(,8!$+1)4!!<612-!(,!=;!,$(8*O2/*220!'$!*+C$!S_!*2=$1!&1(,8!)*21$!)'2!1)/$$)1-!.2&60!1*+0;!
5$1)!R/4!O$!.621$0P!
^!'2&60!%/$3$/!U!6+,$1!2,6;!(,!)*$!=(006$!1$.)(2,!)*+)!*+1!)*$!:$/,!5(08$!7+?$!2,!2,$!2/!O2)*!1(0$1!
+,0!+!W!6+,$!$61$'*$/$4!!<!=&6)(&1$!%+)*!2,!T+,)/$66`H$/?(,1!(1!%/$3$//$04!!:2/!)/+,1()!)*$/$!1*2&60!
O$!+..$6`0$.$6!6+,$1!+)!)*$!O&1!1)2%14!!<)!.$/)+(,!)(=$1!()!(1!C$/;!0(33(.&6)!)2!8$)!O+.?!(,)2!)/+33(.4!
<,;!/+(1$0!.$,)$/!.&/O1!2/!O+//($/1!1*2&60!2,6;!O$!%+/)!23!+!32&/!6+,$!2%)(2,4!!^3!%+/)!23!+!U!6+,$!2/!
1%2)!(=%/2C$=$,)!2%)(2,-!()!'(66!(=%+.)!$=$/8$,.;!C$*(.6$!)/+33(.4!
^3!W!6+,$1!+/$!(=%6$=$,)$0-!1%$$0!1*2&60!O$!(,./$+1$04!!5$36$.)2/1!2,!.$,)$/!6(,$4!
^3!'$!'$,)!'()*!)*$!W!6+,$-!1)2%6(8*)1!+)!(,)$/1$.)(2,1!'2&60!O$!,$.$11+/;!+,;'+;-!O&)!\&1)!)*$!
.$,)$/!6+,$!.2&60!O$!&1$0!'()*!)*$!U!6+,$!2%)(2,4!
@21)!23!)*$!)(=$!)/+33(.!362'1!3(,$!2,!QSY4!!^)M1!=2/$!23!+!%/2O6$=!'*$,!)*$/$!(1!+,!(,.(0$,)!12!+!U!
6+,$!'2&60!O$!1&33(.($,)4!!7(8*)1!'2&60!O$!*$6%3&64!!<!O(?$!%+)*!233!)*$!*(8*'+;!'2&60!O$!O$1)4!!
R2!,2)!(=%+.)!12&)*$/,!/2&)-!(4$4!T+,)/$66!52+0!
^,./$+1$!=+11!)/+,1()-!=2/$!O&1!1$/C(.$!)*+)!'(66!0$6(C$/!%+11$,8$/1!+)!+!)(=$!,$$0$04!!Ka+=%6$L!
$+/6;!=2/,(,84!
^=%/2C(,8!/2+0'+;!+1!()!.&//$,)6;!(1-!'()*!6(8*)(,8-!328!6(,$1-!/2+0!/$%+(/-!,$.$11();!(1!+6)$/,+)(C$!
)/+,1%2/)+)(2,-!(4$4!7bR!D!=+,;!'2&60!&1$!)*(1!(3!+C+(6+O6$!+,0!/$0&.$!)*$!,&=O$/!23!0+(6;!C$*(.6$1!
0/(C(,8!)*(1!.2//(02/4!
^,./$+1$0!O&1`%26(.$!+.)(C();!
^=%/2C$!O&1!1)2%1!'()*!%&662&)1!+,0!1*$6)$/1!)2!(,./$+1$!1+3$);4!
T2,,$.)!O(?$!%+)*!)2!:$/,!5(08$!O(?$!%+)*!+62,8!55!&,0$/%+11!2,!+!1$.)(2,4!!H/$3$/!O(?$!%+)*!+62,8!
T+,)/$664!
K()*$/!+6(8,=$,)!23!)*$!=&6)(>=20+6!%+)*!'2&60!*+C$!%/21!+,0!.2,14!!<!H$/?(,1!+6(8,=$,)!'2&60!
!                                                                                                          "!
#$%&$!'()*'!%$)%$*+,(-!&$%.!/$''!,-!*00,+,(-!+(!1$-$+*2345$-$!6(&$6$-+7!!8!'*9$!*',5-6$-+!/(4'0!
:$!*!'*9$#,0$!%$)%$*+,(-*'!*##$+7!
;!+<,-9!+<,#!,#!#4)<!*!-$$0$0!,6=%(&$6$-+>!;?0!'(&$!+(!:$!*:'$!+(!)(664+$!&,*!:,).)'$!+(!345$-$>!:4+!
)4%%$-+'.!,+?#!+((!4-#*@$!@(%!*!-(&,)$!).)',#+7!!;!+<,-9!,+?#!,6=(%+*-+!+(!'((9!@(%/*%0!/<$-!='*--,-5!
+<,#>!/<,)<!,#!/<.!;!)<(#$!(=+,(-!A!BCD!;?0!%*+<$%!<*&$!#=(+!)<*-5$#!+<*-!-(+<,-5E!
F$+!5*,-!,-!$-&,%(-6$-+*'!&*'4$#!G,7$7!/$+!=%*,%,$!H4*',+.>!$6$%5$-+!/$+'*-0!H4*',+.I!:.!
6,+,5*+,(-J%$#+(%*+,(-!/(4'0!6(&$!+<,#!)'(#$%!+(!*!/,-2/,-!=%(=(#,+,(-7!
K*-!.(4!:*-9!/$+'*-0#L!
8'(-5!MAN!+<$!/$+'*-0#!*%$!6*-!6*0$!0($#!+<*+!6*9$!+<$!=%()$##!$*#,$%L!
O=(+!,6=%(&$6$-+#P!%$@'$)+(%#!(-!/<,+$!*-0!.$''(/!',-$#!Q!8O8R!
M7!;+!,#!*!S8D8TTU!ST8V3W!=4:',)!=%()$##!+(!%$=$*+$0'.!#$$9!=4:',)!,-=4+!/,+<(4+!0,#)4##,-5!
$-&,%(-6$-+*'!)(-#,0$%*+,(-#!,-!0$+*,'7!!!
A7!;!0(!-(+!<*&$!@*,+<!,-!+<$!+$)<-,)*'!&*',0,+.!(@!+<$!#)(%,-5!#.#+$6!4#$0!@(%!%*+,-5!*'+$%-*+,&$#!M2X7!!
3#=!*#!*!:'*)9!:(YE!
X7!V<*+!*:(4+!)((%0,-*+,-5!/,+<!Z$+%(='*-!*-0!3-&,#,(-!345$-$L!
D<,#!,#!*!-*+,(-*'!<,5</*.!*-0!%(*0#!+(!+<$!)(*#+!-$$0!+(!:$!,6=%(&$07!
K*-!/$![4#+!'(/$%!ZR\!+<%4!1$-$+*!=*#+!R$%9,-#!R$-,-#4'*L!!R$(='$!0%,&$!+((!@*#+!@(%!)(-0,+,(-#7!
O4%&$.!H4$#+,(-!]^P!*!0,&,0$%!0($#-?+!@$$'!#*@$!,-!$6$%5$-),$#!G@,%$!+%4)9>!$+)7I!!B*%%,$%!(-'.!/(%9#!
/,+<!_!'*-$#7!
;!)*%$!6(#+!*:(4+!#*@$+.>!*))$##!@(%!:4#$#>!*-0!:4#!%,0$%#!*-0!:,).)'$#7!
D<*-9!.(4!@(%!+<,#!=%()$##7!!U(4!*''!0,0!*!5%$*+![(:7!
S,''!,-!+<$!0,+)<!*-0!:4,'0!+<$!O`B!
M7!C#$%!@$$#!@(%!:,9$!%,0$%#!
A7!K<4--$'!Q!=*.!*#!.(4!5(7!
X7!;#!+<$%$!*!a',@$b!+(!+<$!:%,05$#!*'%$*0.!+<$%$L!!V(4'0!/$!<*&$!+(!%$='*)$!+<$6!,-!Mc!.$*%#!*-./*.L!
D<$.!0$)(6=(#$!H4,)9$%!/,+<!*''!+<$!*00$0!#+%*,-L!
_7!T,5<+!%*,'!
R$(='$!#*@$+.!#<(4'0!+*9$!=%$)$0$-)$!(&$%!$-&,%(-6$-+7!
V\8D!\8RR3F3W!D`!V3OD!3Cd3F3!R8efV8U!f;DDUE!
8!6*,-!,##4$!;!$-)(4-+$%!0*,'.!(-!6.!6(%-,-5!)(664+$!+(!345$-$!,#!=$(='$!=4'',-5!(-!+(!+<$!</.!
@%(6!#+(=!#,5-#!G3''6*9$%>!$+)I7!!`f!@(%!M!(%!A!)*%#!:4+!+<$!_!(%!g!*@+$%!+<$6!)*4#$!:%*9$!#'*66,-5>!
*)),0$-+#>!$+)7!!;!#4#=$)+!+<$.!/(4'0!*'#(!%4-!.$''(/!*-0!%$0!',5<+#!+((7!!8-.!/*.!+(!*00%$##!+<,#L!
S,%#+!=%,(%,+.!#<(4'0!:$!#*@$+.!(@!=$0$#+%,*-#!*-0!:,).)'$#7!!D<$.!*%$!&$%.!<*%0!+(!#$$!(-!0*%9>!%*,-.!
(%!@(55.!-,5<+#7!!T,5<+,-5!/(4'0!*'#(!<$'=7!!S%(-+*5$!%(*0!@(%!:4#,-$##$#!/(4'0!:$!-,)$!Q!*))$##!A!(%!
X!:4#,-$##$#!/,+<(4+!%$2$-+$%,-5!MAN>!$#=$),*''.!,@!<,5</*.!#=$$0#!,-)%$*#$7!
;!*==%$),*+$!+<$!$@@(%+!`W`D!,#!+*9,-5!+(!5$+!=4:',)!@$$0:*)9>!;!(-'.!<(=$!+<$!=4:',)!@$$0:*)9!,#!
*==',$0!/<$-!+<$!+,6$!)(6$#7!!D<*-9#7!
;+!,#!,6=$%*+,&$!+<*+!+<,#!,6=%(&$6$-+!(@!<,5</*.!MAN!)(%%,0(%!:$!,6='$6$-+$0!*#!#((-!*#!=(##,:'$7!
d((0!+(!#$$!#(6$!=%(2*)+,&$!+<,-5#!,-#+$*0!(@!%$2*)+,&$7!
D<*-9!.(4!@(%!*''(/,-5!(4%!,-=4+7!
e$)(66$-0*+,(-P!!D*'9!+(!0%,&,-5!<,5<!#)<(('$%#7!!W%,&,-5!MAN!,#!-$/!@(%!+<$6!*-0!+<$.!-(+,)$!
$&$%.+<,-5>!/<$%$!$Y=$%,$-)$0!0%,&$%#!*%$!)(6='*)$-+7!!U(4-5!0%,&$%#!,-=4+!6,5<+!:$!&$%.!
%$&$*',-5!+(!,##4$#!-$$0,-5!+(!:$!%$#('&$07!
O+%(-5!)(-#,0$%*+,(-!-$$0#!+(!:$!+<(45<+!(@!*#!+(!=(+$-+,*'!5%(/+<!,-!1$-$+*7!!V,+<!5*#!-$*%,-5!
h_J5*'>!'$##!=$(='$!/,''!',&$!%4%*''.!:$)*4#$!5*#!)(#+#!*%$![4#+!+((!<,5<7!!3*#,$%!)(664+,-5!0($#!-(+!
$H4*'!:$++$%J#6*%+$%!)(664+,-57!!\`1!'*-$#>!:4#$#!:,9,-5!*&*,'7!




!                                                                                                            "!
Community Forum #2: Evaluate the Options Questions
Directions: Read each statement below and circle the number corresponding to your opinion. If you do not
know or don't care, circle "Neutral". All questions relate to OR126W between Greenhill and Huston Road.


CAPACITY
1. Some traffic congestion (which may limit my travel                1       2       3       4       5
   speed and result in delays getting to my                 Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
   destination) is ok during peak travel periods
   (example 4 PM to 6 PM)
2. There is adequate capacity today in the 126 Fern                  1       2       3       4       5
   Ridge corridor to accommodate future growth              Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
3. Two travel lanes in each direction is necessary to                1       2       3       4       5
   provide adequate capacity                                Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
4. Widening to two travel lanes in each direction                    1       2       3       4       5
   would lead to future economic development in             Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
   Western Lane County
5. Freight movements (trucks) are currently hindered                 1       2       3       4       5
   traveling through and within the project corridor        Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
SAFETY
6. Safety improvements along the corridor should be                  1       2       3       4       5
   implemented as quickly as possible                       Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
7. A raised median divider is necessary to improve                   1       2       3       4       5
   safety along the highway                                 Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
8. It is ok to consolidate/reduce driveways if it results            1       2       3       4       5
   in improved safety along the highway                     Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
9. Left and right turn lanes at intersections and                    1       2       3       4       5
   driveways are necessary to improve safety along          Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
   the highway
PEDESTRIANS, CYCLISTS AND TRANSIT
10. A multi-use path for pedestrians and bicycle travel               1       2      3        4       5
    should be provided as part of this project              Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
11. A multi-use path should be located on a different                 1       2      3        4       5
    alignment from the highway                              Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
12. If it facilitates implementation of the multi-use path,           1       2      3        4       5
    it is ok to locate the multi-use path adjacent to the Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
    Highway if a physical barrier is provided
13. Widened shoulders along the highway will be                   1       2       3       4       5
    adequate to serve pedestrian and bicycle travel      Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
    along the corridor
14. Safer pedestrian crossing opportunities should be             1       2       3       4       5
    provided along the highway                           Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
15. Transit stop improvements such as street lighting,            1       2       3       4       5
    sidewalks and shelters would increase transit        Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
    ridership
16. Additional police enforcement would improve                   1       2       3       4       5
    safety                                               Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
ENVIRONMENT
17. Highway improvements should not impact in any                1       2      3        4       5
    way Fern Ridge Lake or other environmentally       Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
    sensitive natural resources
18. Highway improvements should strike a balance                 1       2      3        4       5
    between transportation needs and impacting, to the Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
    minimum extent possible, Fern Ridge Lake or other
    environmentally sensitive natural resources
19. This project should seek opportunities to provide            1       2      3        4       5
    transportation improvements and improve            Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
    environmentally sensitive natural resources
    (including Fern Ridge Lake and wildlife area)
IMPLEMENTATION
20. The preferred alternative should be developed so              1       2       3       4       5
    that it can be implemented in phases                 Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree
21. The preferred alternative should consider options             1       2       3       4       5
    that have the best opportunity to receive funding    Strongly agree/ Agree/Neutral/Disagree/Strongly Disagree


22. WHICH ALTERNATIVE DO YOU PREFER?

    First Choice: __________________________

    Second Choice: _______________________

    List of Alternatives:
    · 4-Lane on Piers with Separated Multi-Use Path
    · 3-Lane on Piers with Separated Multi-Use Path
    · Spot Improvements with Separated Multi-Use Path
    · No Build

23. COMMENTS
  !"#$%&'(%)$#(*+%,*(-.#/0%,#12$3*%)0#$4
          5%6#)#(%47/'(*80%3#(-




· 9%0*:$;6(*2$0(2.2$0*4%)<
  ­ .#/0%,#12$9*=%
  ­ 5%6#)#(%47/'(*80%3#(-
    >52/(-%)$&'*:$?%$(*@%@
    3%)=*$0#$4 .#$()%''A2#40B
  !"#$%&'(%)$#(*+%,*(-.#/0%,#12$3*%)0#$4
          5%6#)#(%47/'(*80%3#(-




· 9%0*:$;6(*2$0(2.2$0*4%)<
  ­ .#/0%,#12$9*=%
  ­ 5%6#)#(%47/'(*80%3#(-
    >52/(-%)$&'*:$?%$(
    >           :      *@%@3%)=*$0#$4
    .#$()%''A2#40B
!"#$%&"'#()&)*$+,-$.!)"/'/$)0123$-4+)5/$.




                6)+-7*8"$-#*+$#9#*+-0)':
                   ;)<$ /*0=#'>-7.$?2'*;/*)+/$%*$)'+)@$-#*+
                   ?'/<<-@!-7*/3+
                   ;-&-$)05/++-*7;/*)+
                   ?'/*+-$!$#"%&"'#()&)*$+
                   A&)'7)*@B?2'*/'#2*0+/*05#3-@)52338<<+
                  !"#$%&'
· !"()*%&%+,-./0"12.23+4
· !"#$%&'5&+203)+%12026$%02'+")'1)3*2/20!785
  026$%02.23+4
    6
                                                                                                  
  

MEETING SUMMARY
Community Forum #3: Choose an Option
Tuesday, May 8th, 2012, 6-7:30 pm, Elmira High School
Introduction

The Highway 126: Fern Ridge Corridor Plan hosted three community forums to arrive at
the final recommended transportation corridor plan between the cities of Veneta and Eugene.
At the first meeting, in October 2011, participants answered open-ended questions about the
project purpose, needs, and goals. At the second meeting, in January 2012, specific feedback
was gathered on a range of alternatives to solve the problems.

The final community forum held May 8, 2012, gathered public input on the final
recommendation for improvements to Highway 126 between Greenhill Road and Huston Road.
An estimated 75 people attended the final forum: 68 participants and 7 members of the project
team. The Project Team recommended moving forward with the 4-Lane and Spot
Improvements Alternatives, and not moving forward with the 3-Lane
Alternative. Ninety-five percent of the meeting participants agreed with these
recommendations.

The planning process is designed to incorporate a wide variety of perspectives and identify
solutions that are realistic, have public support, and are within a 20-year planning
horizon. Interviews, focus groups, connections with community groups, a project website, and
public forums have all been part of the process.

Meeting Goals

      ·   Share the results of the Tier 2 screening: right-of-way needs, cost estimates, etc.
      ·   Discuss the reasoning behind the final recommendation of a 4-lane facility.
      ·   Outline next steps in the process.
      ·   Answer questions and gather input on the final recommendations.

Meeting Agenda

6:00      Dinner
6:05      Welcome
          Dan Fricke, Oregon Department of Transportation
6:10      Introductions and Agenda
           Ellen Teninty, Cogito


                                                                                                     1  
6:15     Presentation of Recommendations
         Scott Mansur, DKS Associates
6:40     Questions and Discussion
7:00     View the Maps
7:20     Submit Input, Thank you, Next Steps, Adjourn

Presentation of Findings and Recommendations

Scott Mansur briefly reviewed the project needs, goals, study area, and process. He then shared
the results of the survey conducted at the second community forum in January:
    · Top Choice of alternative: 74% of the public selected the 4-lane, 20% selected 3-Lane,
        and 5% selected the spot improvements.
    · Key issues raised: desire a net gain in environmental values, 4-lane is preferred by most,
        bike path is critical, short-term "spot improvements" are needed as soon as possible,
        transit improvements are important, and safety is essential.

Since the second forum in January the project team has:
   · Incorporated public input and conducted field reconnaissance with ODOT, the Army
        Corps of Engineers, and the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife.
   · Prepared concept drawings and cost estimates for the alternatives.
   · Conducted Tier 2 environmental screening and scoring.

Results of the Traffic Analysis:
    · 4-Lane alternative performed best with all study intersections meeting Oregon Highway
       Plan (OHP) mobility targets for future 2035 scenario
    · Spot Improvements provide short to medium term intersection capacity but does not
       adequately address 20-year capacity needs
    · 3-Lane would improve travel times along corridor but does not meet OHP Mobility
       Targets for 2035 scenario

Cost Estimate Summary:
    · 3-Lane and 4-Lane on Dike are $95 Million and $130 Million, respectively
    · Causeway on Piers Design Option adds $50 Million to 3-Lane and $65 Million to 4- Lane
    · Spot Improvements are Lowest Cost Build Alternative
    · Majority of the $15 Million Spot Improvements would be used in 4-Lane Alternative

Recommended Alternatives for Next Project Phase

      Moving Forward:
        1. 4-Lane Alternative
        2. Spot Improvements (as Phased Improvement to 4-Lane)
        3. No-Build (required to advance due to federal NEPA regulations)

      Not Moving Forward: 3-Lane Alternative

Recommended Design Options to Move Forward for both Alternatives
      Multi-Use Path
        1. Adjacent to OR 126
        2. Southern Alignment on Cantrell and Perkins


                                                                                              2  
      Causeway
         1. On Dike
         2. On Piers

Next Steps

After reviewing public comments from this forum, the project team will prepare a final plan and
present it to the Lane County ACT (Area Commission on Transportation), the Lane County
Planning Commission, and the Lane County Board of Commissioners. Finally, the Oregon
Transportation Commission will consider and adopt the final plan.

Scott introduced maps of the corridor that identified spot improvements and delineated the
footprint and concept design of both a 4-lane and 3-lane facility. To view the full PowerPoint
presentation, please visit our website: www.highway126.org.

The Project team then talked informally with the public about the wall maps and encouraged
them to complete a public input form (see below for a summary of input).

Participant comments and questions during the meeting

Q: I was wondering if there is any study as to the dike compared to the piers in terms of future
maintenance?
A: There is less water impact on piers, but both options are on the table.

Q: What is the soonest construction could start?
A: Spot improvements could happen quickly once they are identified. Some of the simpler
things we could get to in a year or two. The widening is a long-term proposition. I would not
guess at this point, because funding has not been identified. It could be as long as 10 to 20
years.

Q: Is the existing roadway alignment where the widening would occur?
A: Yes.

Q. What is the property value analysis along Perkins Road? It is narrow and has a lot of traffic.
A: It would be evaluated in greater detail in the next phase. There is likely room in the right of
way to add bike lanes on Cantrell Road.

Q: The roadway as it sits now is not on piers. Would you keep the dike if you add piers?
A: It would be removed. However, the railroad dike would have to remain.

Q: Mass transit ­ do you have population growth projections as to what will happen?
A: There is some significant growth that can occur out here. This project looks at how to
improve amenities for getting on and off the bus more safely.

Q: Did you consider putting a no-pass lane in from Greenhill Rd. to North Territorial?
A: I don't remember if we looked at that, but it is a possibility.

Q; I'd like to address the public meeting with the Lane County Planning Commission. When and
where will those meetings be?
A: I don't know yet, but we will talk to the County and find out how that will play out.



                                                                                                    3  
Q: I'm curious if we choose the southern route for the bike path, could that be built sooner as
part of the spot improvements?
A: Funding would be an issue, and the southern alignment would be a county project. ODOT
does have some money for projects like that.

Q: Of the $140 million, how much of that does the multi-use project cost?
A: About $2 million

Q: I disagree with a previous comment that there should be a "no-passing" lane. I do not
support that. And we need to get this road built. We need it sooner than later.
A: The spot improvements are moving us forward, not backward.

Q: What is the environmental analysis of the dike construction compared to the pier
construction? Is there a difference in analysis cost?
A: From an environmental standpoint, the piers option should provide better hydraulic flow.
Unfortunately, we would still have to deal with the dike that supports the railroad tracks. So
until the complete dike is removed, the full environmental lift would not be achieved.

Q: Is there a way to cooperate with the railroad?
A: We are working with the railroad.

Q: You should check on right of way of the railroad
A: We will.

Q: We need to keep the cost factor in mind when we are dealing with environmental
considerations. We are not dealing with Crater Lake. The priority should be on getting the four
lanes. We should forget about the piers to save cost. Have you considered the safety concerns
of pier construction on freezing days?
A: That is something we would need to consider if that design option moves forward.

Q: The driver is to blame for accidents, not the road design. At this point, we know we need to
get this four-lane through, the sooner the better.
A: We are making this plan towards doing that, with your help.

Q: Will the draft corridor plan be circulated for comment before adopted?
A: It will be released when available, as it goes through the approval process there will be public
comment opportunities.

Q: Will they be made available in the libraries?
A: No. But they will be made available on ODOT's website.

Q: There is a mosquito problem. Get rid of the ditch to get rid of the mosquitoes.
A: It is a wetland and it is roadway drainage, and that would be addressed. That is all in the
final design.

Input Form Results

A total of 61 input forms were collected, and 95% of respondents supported the
final recommendations. Specifically:




                                                                                                 4  
I support ODOT's recommendations:
__Yes: 42 (69%)
__Yes, with this question or concern: 16 (26%)
__No: 2 (3%)
__Comment only: 1 (2%)
  
                                                                                                   Support
                                                                                                   Recommend-
Comments on Input Forms                                                                            ations?
No piers. The sooner the better!                                                                   Yes
No piers. Use fill for road bed. Take bikes off highway.                                           Yes
4-lane ASAP!                                                                                       Yes
I like the no passing idea. We need a little more law enforcement in that area.                    Yes
Just do it! Fill the potholes now!!                                                                Yes
I think the south bike walking path is best, for drivers and future recreational development       Yes
I like the southern alignment for multi-use path in hopes it could be built earlier.               Yes
Get it done while I'm still able to drive - please!!                                               Yes
Bike lane should definitely be a part of this project. I do not support the south alignment for
the bike lane.                                                                                     Yes
Bike lane south if possible.                                                                       Yes
Build next to RR on RR ROW. Fill the mosquito swamp. Roadbed on 126 is former gravel
road with faulty sub-grade. ODOT paved a cow path.                                                 Yes
Eliminate pier option. Fill under northern improvements.                                           Yes
Want bike route southern alignment                                                                 Yes
Especially with bike access southern alignment                                                     Yes
Would like to emphasize the southern bike path be built as part of spot improvements               Yes
We need traffic signal on Ellmaker                                                                 Yes
Four-lane on dike preferred (mitigate wetlands elsewhere) and since this would include wide
shoulders, the bike lane on the southern alignment would be less effective (redundant). Spot
improvements should proceed IMMEDIATELY. The adjacent multi-use path is a good
compromise between southern off-system path and shoulder use by bikes/peds. Trucks and
RVs are a frequent hold-up along the corridor and short-term improvements should evaluate
SMV placement.                                                                                     Yes
Piers too expensive. Yes to bike/walk paths, Territorial widen for bikes. Tell Corps that
bike/walk path needed around the whole lake.                                                       Yes with Q

Please, no piers just make 4 lanes on the dike.                                                    Yes with Q

Keep the multi-path adjacent to the highway so it is funded by the project.                        Yes with Q
If the spot improvements are initiated they must NOT be escalated to take the place of the 4
lanes!                                                                                             Yes with Q
I would much rather have the 4 lane built ASAP. But, if only can do spot improvements would
be better than nothing. Would rather have road on dike, not piers due to costs and weather
concerns. Let's do it right the first time. You've done a good job. Wish we could start today!     Yes with Q

4 lanes, let us do it right not on the cheap.                                                      Yes with Q
Please don't let the environmentalists priorities come ahead of the safety of motorists and
their passengers. A good example is the spotted owl. They relocated without much help from
human beings.                                                                                      Yes with Q
I feel that a four-lane highway with jersey barrier and lights on a dike is the way to go. Piers
seem to be waste of money, considering the railroad dike. I prefer the southern route for the
multiuse path. Where does the money come from?                                                     Yes with Q



                                                                                                          5  
My only concern is that we nickel and dime the money away before the project is actually
committed and done. Please don't let that happen to Highway 126 again.                            Yes with Q
I support the 4-lane on causeway, plus southern multi-use path. For $2 million, the path
should be incorporated (along with "no pass" striping and signage) into short-term
improvements. This would improve the corridor for bikes, peds and vehicles immediately.
Also don't give up on more LTD express service from downtown Veneta to the westerly
terminus of the EmX! They would be mutually supportive.                                           Yes with Q

I think the multi-use path should be on the south alignment and not along West 11th.              Yes with Q
Only for the dike procedure. No, if on piers. I am afraid environmental pushers will force
piers on the project, with no benefit for traffic mitigation. And with huge construction and
maintenance costs.                                                                                Yes with Q
The focus should be a safe and cost effective transportation route. It is not Crater Lake. Keep
environmental reasonable. No piers.                                                               Yes with Q

Roadkill - already significant and would increase with widening.                                  Yes with Q
What are the priorities for spot improvements and when can we expect some action on these?
The 4-lane is ideal. It is commendable to have a plan that is agreed upon. However, I would
like to see immediate action in terms of spot improvements to address safety issues first and
foremost. At night, in the rain, it is difficult to see the ROAD! What do we need to do to get
reflectors on the whole stretch of the road in question??? ASAP This is a public safety issue
and addressing it may not be all THAT expensive.                                                  Yes with Q
I approve of the 3-lane plan with added improvements of signs, bus stop and light
improvements.                                                                                     No
LTD bus schedule improved more frequently and multi-use path is a must. Really need to
weigh the north extension into Fern Ridge canal. I believe that the road needs to be
improved. Spot improvements will go a long way. Be cognizant of the waterway usage along
north side of road across Fern Ridge Reservoir.                                                   No
There needs to be more reflective lane and crossing markers to help people in dark, rainy or
foggy nights. Now, visibility is very bad. Huston Road north of 126 is dangerous for drivers
headed south toward 126. A slight rise in the road makes Huston south as it goes over the RR
tracks appear continuous and 126 itself is not visible.                                           ?

For a project description, visit www.highway126.org
To contact the project, email info@highway126.org.




                                                                                                         6  
                         Highway  126  Fern  Ridge  Corridor  Plan  
                        Community  Forum  #3:  Choose  an  Option  
                             Tuesday,  May  8th,  6-7:30  pm  
                                                         
At  our  first  meeting  last  October  we  asked  participants  open-ended  questions  
to  gather  input  for  the  project  purpose,  need,  and  goals.    In  the  second  meeting  
in  January,  the  project  presented  a  range  of  alternatives  to  solve  the  problem  
and  we  gathered  specific  information  on  each  alternative  through  a  survey.    At  
this  point  in  the  project,  most  of  the  work  is  done.    Your  input  on  the  final  
recommendation  is  the  final  step  in  this  phase  of  the  project:  
  
Please  check  one:  
  
        I  support  ODOT's  recommendations:  
          
        ______    Yes  
          
        _______    No  
          
        _______    Yes,  with  this  question  or  concern:  
          
          
          
          
          
  
  
You  are  welcome  to  add  other  comments  here:  
  


  
  




                                                                                                             7  
                             APPENDIX J. HIGHWAY 126 FERN RIDGE CORRIDOR PLAN




Appendix J. Project Cost Estimates and Supplemental Traffic
Analysis Data
                                                              PRELIMINARY COST ESTIMATE
                                                                               Otak, Inc.
SECTION                                                                                                                            COUNTY


                                    OR126W: Fern Ridge Corridor                                                                                   Lane County
                       3-Lane Option with Multi-Use Path on Southern Alignment
Otak Proj No.        KIND OF WORK                                                                        LENGTH     DATE           ROADWAY DESIGNER

                          Grading, Drainage, Structure, Paving, Signing, Illumination, and Roadside
          16112                                                                                          6.4 mi        6/20/12                        Otak, Inc.
                                                        Development
     ITEM NUMBER                                        ITEM DESCRIPTION                                     UNIT     AMOUNT          UNIT COST                TOTAL

TEMPORARY FEATURES
                1    MOBILIZATION (12% of material costs)                                               LS                  1          $4,824,100                   $4,824,100
                2    TEMPORARY TRAFFIC CONTROL (7.5% of material costs)                                 LS                  1          $3,015,100                   $3,015,100
                3    EROSION CONTROL (4% of material costs)                                             LS                  1          $1,608,100                   $1,608,100
                4    POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN (2.5% of material costs)                                    LS                  1          $1,005,100                   $1,005,100
                5    CONSTRUCTION SURVEY WORK (7.5% of material costs)                                  LS                  1          $3,015,100                   $3,015,100
EARTHWORK
                6    EMBANKMENT, RESERVOIR-NORTH                                                        CY            161,111                  $20                  $3,222,222
                7    EMBANKMENT, RESERVOIR-SOUTH                                                        CY                 5,800               $20                     $116,000
                8    EMBANKMENT, ROADWAY                                                                CY            253,315                  $20                  $5,066,300
ROADWORK
                9    SIGN & STRIPE REMOVAL                                                              FT            100,950                 $1.50                    $151,425
                10   REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES AND OBSTRUCTIONS (2.5% of widened roadways)                  LS                  1            $771,900                      $771,900
                11   ASPHALT SAWCUTTING                                                                 LF             67,300                 $1.50                    $100,950
                12   COLD PLANE PAVEMENT REMOVAL, 1-2 INCH DEEP                                         SY            104,689                    $5                    $523,444
                13   SUBGRADE STABILIZATION                                                             SY             31,900                  $20                     $638,000
                14   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 3-LN VERY CONSTRAINED                                   LF             15,950                 $472                  $7,528,400
                15   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 3-LN CONSTRAINED                                        LF             16,800                 $520                  $8,736,000
                16   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 3-LN UNCONSTRAINED                                      LF                 900                $540                     $486,000
                17   CONCRETE BARRIER                                                                   LF                  0                  $50                          $0
                18   MULTI-USE PATH                                                                     LF             40,200                  $60                  $2,412,000
                19   MINOR INTERSECTION IMPROVEMENTS                                                    EA                  5               $16,000                     $80,000
                20   INTERSECTION STREET LIGHTING                                                       EA                  4               $12,000                     $48,000
                21   BUS STOP IMPROVEMENTS                                                              EA                  5                $5,000                     $25,000
                22   GUARDRAIL                                                                          LF             14,000                  $30                     $420,000
STRUCTURES
                23   STRUCTURES, WIDENING                                                               EA                  3            $646,000                   $1,938,000
                24   OVERPASS STRUCTURE, WIDENING                                                       SF             14,400                 $350                  $5,040,000
STORMWATER FACILITIES
                25   WATER QUALITY FACILITY                                                             LS                  1          $1,750,000                   $1,750,000
                26   CULVERT EXTENSIONS                                                                 EA                  1            $250,000                      $250,000
PERMANENT TRAFFIC CONTROL
                27   STRIPING                                                                           LF            134,600                 $3.20                    $430,720
                28   LEGENDS                                                                            EA                  20                $450                       $9,000
                29   CROSSWALKS                                                                         EA                  5                $3,000                     $15,000
                30   MILE MARKER POSTS                                                                  EA                  13                $100                       $1,300
                31   SIGNING (2 sides, 500' O.C. avg)                                                   EA                 135                $300                      $40,380
                32   TRAFFIC SIGNALS                                                                    EA                  2            $200,000                      $400,000
TOTALS
                     SUBTOTAL OF ITEMS                                                                                                                             $53,667,542
                     SOFT COSTS (30%)                                                                                                                              $16,100,263
                     CONSTRUCTION CONTINGENCIES (30%)                                                                                                              $16,100,263
                     CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING (10%)                                                                                                                 $5,366,754


                33   RIGHT-OF-WAY ACQUISITION                                                           SF            117,059                 $2.50                    $292,646
                34   TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT                                                    SF            874,000                 $1.00                    $874,000
                     SUBTOTAL OF ITEMS                                                                                                                             $92,401,467
                     ROUNDED COST ESTIMATE                                                                                                                         $95,000,000




S:\Projects\2009\P09042-019 (ODOT OR 126 Facilities Plan)\Otak Figures and Cost Estimates\Cost Estimates\Cost Estimate_3 lane_south path                            6/20/2012 11:11 AM
                                                              PRELIMINARY COST ESTIMATE
                                                                               Otak, Inc.
SECTION                                                                                                                            COUNTY


                                          OR126W: Fern Ridge Corridor                                                                             Lane County
                                    3-Lane Option with Adjacent Multi-Use Path
Otak Proj No.        KIND OF WORK                                                                         LENGTH    DATE           ROADWAY DESIGNER

                          Grading, Drainage, Structure, Paving, Signing, Illumination, and Roadside
          16112                                                                                          6.4 mi        6/20/12                        Otak, Inc.
                                                        Development
     ITEM NUMBER                                        ITEM DESCRIPTION                                     UNIT     AMOUNT          UNIT COST                TOTAL

TEMPORARY FEATURES
                1    MOBILIZATION (10% of material costs)                                               LS                  1          $4,329,900                   $4,329,900
                2    TEMPORARY TRAFFIC CONTROL (5% of material costs)                                   LS                  1          $2,165,000                   $2,165,000
                3    EROSION CONTROL (2.5% of material costs)                                           LS                  1          $1,082,500                   $1,082,500
                4    POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN (1.5% of material costs)                                    LS                  1            $649,500                      $649,500
                5    CONSTRUCTION SURVEY WORK (5% of material costs)                                    LS                  1          $2,165,000                   $2,165,000
EARTHWORK
                6    EMBANKMENT, RESERVOIR-NORTH                                                        CY            161,111                  $20                  $3,222,222
                7    EMBANKMENT, RESERVOIR-SOUTH                                                        CY                 5,800               $20                     $116,000
                8    EMBANKMENT, ROADWAY                                                                CY            253,315                  $20                  $5,066,300
ROADWORK
                9    SIGN & STRIPE REMOVAL                                                              FT            100,950                 $1.50                    $151,425
                10   REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES AND OBSTRUCTIONS (1.5% of widened roadways)                  LS                  1            $513,500                      $513,500
                11   ASPHALT SAWCUTTING                                                                 LF             67,300                 $1.50                    $100,950
                12   COLD PLANE PAVEMENT REMOVAL, 1-2 INCH DEEP                                         SY            104,689                    $5                    $523,444
                13   SUBGRADE STABILIZATION                                                             SY             31,900                  $20                     $638,000
                14   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 3-LN VERY CONSTRAINED                                   LF             15,950                 $472                  $7,528,400
                15   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 3-LN CONSTRAINED                                        LF             16,800                 $520                  $8,736,000
                16   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 3-LN UNCONSTRAINED                                      LF                 900                $540                     $486,000
                17   CONCRETE BARRIER                                                                   LF             16,800                  $50                     $840,000
                18   MULTI-USE PATH                                                                     LF             32,910                  $60                  $1,974,600
                19   MINOR INTERSECTION IMPROVEMENTS                                                    EA                  5               $16,000                     $80,000
                20   INTERSECTION STREET LIGHTING                                                       EA                  4               $12,000                     $48,000
                21   BUS STOP IMPROVEMENTS                                                              EA                  5                $5,000                     $25,000
                22   GUARDRAIL                                                                          LF             14,000                  $30                     $420,000
STRUCTURES
                23   STRUCTURES, WIDENING                                                               EA                  3          $1,054,000                   $3,162,000
                24   OVERPASS STRUCTURE, WIDENING                                                       SF             19,200                 $350                  $6,720,000
STORMWATER FACILITIES
                25   WATER QUALITY FACILITY                                                             LS                  1          $1,800,000                   $1,800,000
                26   CULVERT EXTENSIONS                                                                 EA                  1            $250,000                      $250,000
PERMANENT TRAFFIC CONTROL
                27   STRIPING                                                                           LF            134,600                 $3.20                    $430,720
                28   LEGENDS                                                                            EA                  20                $450                       $9,000
                29   CROSSWALKS                                                                         EA                  5                $3,000                     $15,000
                30   MILE MARKER POSTS                                                                  EA                  13                $100                       $1,300
                31   SIGNING (2 sides, 500' O.C. avg)                                                   EA                 135                $300                      $40,380
                32   TRAFFIC SIGNALS                                                                    EA                  2            $200,000                      $400,000
TOTALS
                     SUBTOTAL OF ITEMS                                                                                                                             $53,690,142
                     SOFT COSTS (30%)                                                                                                                              $16,107,043
                     CONSTRUCTION CONTINGENCIES (30%)                                                                                                              $16,107,043
                     CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING (10%)                                                                                                                 $5,369,014


                33   RIGHT-OF-WAY ACQUISITION                                                           SF            117,059                 $2.50                    $292,646
                34   TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT                                                    SF            673,000                 $1.00                    $673,000
                     SUBTOTAL OF ITEMS                                                                                                                             $92,238,887
                     ROUNDED COST ESTIMATE                                                                                                                         $95,000,000




S:\Projects\2009\P09042-019 (ODOT OR 126 Facilities Plan)\Otak Figures and Cost Estimates\Cost Estimates\Cost Estimate_3 lane                                       6/20/2012 11:21 AM
                                                              PRELIMINARY COST ESTIMATE
                                                                               Otak, Inc.
SECTION                                                                                                                           COUNTY


                                     OR126W: Fern Ridge Corridor                                                                                 Lane County
                        4-Lane Option with Multi-Use Path on Southern Alignment
Otak Proj No.        KIND OF WORK                                                                        LENGTH    DATE           ROADWAY DESIGNER

                          Grading, Drainage, Structure, Paving, Signing, Illumination, and Roadside
          16112                                                                                         6.4 mi        6/20/12                        Otak, Inc.
                                                        Development
     ITEM NUMBER                                        ITEM DESCRIPTION                                    UNIT     AMOUNT          UNIT COST                    TOTAL

TEMPORARY FEATURES
                1    MOBILIZATION (12% of material costs)                                              LS                  1          $5,179,800                     $5,179,800
                2    TEMPORARY TRAFFIC CONTROL (7.5% of material costs)                                LS                  1          $3,237,400                     $3,237,400
                3    EROSION CONTROL (4% of material costs)                                            LS                  1          $1,726,600                     $1,726,600
                4    POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN (2.5% of material costs)                                   LS                  1          $1,079,200                     $1,079,200
                5    CONSTRUCTION SURVEY WORK (7.5% of material costs)                                 LS                  1          $3,237,400                     $3,237,400
EARTHWORK
                6    EMBANKMENT, RESERVOIR-NORTH                                                       CY            238,444                  $20                    $4,768,889
                7    EMBANKMENT, RESERVOIR-SOUTH                                                       CY             30,289                  $20                         $605,778
                8    EMBANKMENT, ROADWAY                                                               CY            475,040                  $20                    $9,500,800
ROADWORK
                9    SIGN & STRIPE REMOVAL                                                             FT            100,950                 $1.50                        $151,425
                10   REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES AND OBSTRUCTIONS (2.5% of widened roadways)                 LS                  1          $1,049,200                     $1,049,200
                11   ASPHALT SAWCUTTING                                                                LF             67,300                 $1.50                        $100,950
                12   COLD PLANE PAVEMENT REMOVAL, 1-2 INCH DEEP                                        SY            104,689                   $5                         $523,444
                13   SUBGRADE STABILIZATION                                                            SY            100,156                  $20                    $2,003,111
                14   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 4-LN VERY CONSTRAINED (8 ft)                           LF             16,400                 $620                   $10,168,000
                15   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 4-LN VERY CONSTRAINED (16 ft)                          LF                 7,550              $685                    $5,171,750
                16   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 4-LN CONSTRAINED (8 ft)                                LF                 2,500              $655                    $1,637,500
                17   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 4-LN CONSTRAINED (16 ft)                               LF                 5,850              $720                    $4,212,000
                18   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 4-LN UNCONSTRAINED                                     LF                 950                $685                         $650,750
                19   CONCRETE BARRIER                                                                  LF                  0                  $60                              $0
                20   MULTI-USE PATH                                                                    LF             40,200                  $60                    $2,412,000
                21   MINOR INTERSECTION IMPROVEMENTS                                                   EA                  5               $16,000                         $80,000
                22   INTERSECTION STREET LIGHTING                                                      EA                  4               $12,000                         $48,000
                23   BUS STOP IMPROVEMENTS                                                             EA                  5                $5,000                         $25,000
                24   GUARDRAIL                                                                         LF             14,000                  $30                         $420,000
STRUCTURES
                25   STRUCTURES, WIDENING                                                              EA                  3          $1,190,000                     $3,570,000
                26   OVERPASS STRUCTURE, WIDENING                                                      SF             20,800                 $350                    $7,280,000
STORMWATER FACILITIES
                27   WATER QUALITY FACILITY                                                            LS                  1          $2,300,000                     $2,300,000
                28   CULVERT EXTENSIONS                                                                EA                  1            $250,000                          $250,000
PERMANENT TRAFFIC CONTROL
                29   STRIPING                                                                          LF            201,900                 $3.20                        $646,080
                30   LEGENDS                                                                           EA                  20                $450                           $9,000
                31   CROSSWALKS                                                                        EA                  5                $3,000                         $15,000
                32   MILE MARKER POSTS                                                                 EA                  13                $100                           $1,300
                33   SIGNING (2 sides, 500' O.C. avg)                                                  EA                 135                $300                          $40,380
                34   TRAFFIC SIGNALS                                                                   EA                  2            $200,000                          $400,000
TOTALS
                     SUBTOTAL OF ITEMS                                                                                                                              $72,500,757
                     SOFT COSTS (30%)                                                                                                                               $21,750,227
                     CONSTRUCTION CONTINGENCIES (30%)                                                                                                               $21,750,227
                     CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING (10%)                                                                                                                  $7,250,076


                35   RIGHT-OF-WAY ACQUISITION                                                          SF            225,390                 $2.50                        $563,475
                36   TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT                                                   SF            874,000                 $1.00                        $874,000
                     SUBTOTAL OF ITEMS                                                                                                                             $124,688,762
                     ROUNDED COST ESTIMATE                                                                                                                         $130,000,000




S:\Projects\2009\P09042-019 (ODOT OR 126 Facilities Plan)\Otak Figures and Cost Estimates\Cost Estimates\Cost Estimate_4 lane_south path                                      6/20/2012 11:03 AM
                                                              PRELIMINARY COST ESTIMATE
                                                                               Otak, Inc.
SECTION                                                                                                                           COUNTY


                                          OR126W: Fern Ridge Corridor                                                                            Lane County
                                    4-Lane Option with Adjacent Multi-Use Path
Otak Proj No.        KIND OF WORK                                                                        LENGTH    DATE           ROADWAY DESIGNER

                          Grading, Drainage, Structure, Paving, Signing, Illumination, and Roadside
          16112                                                                                          6.4 mi       6/20/12                        Otak, Inc.
                                                        Development
     ITEM NUMBER                                        ITEM DESCRIPTION                                    UNIT     AMOUNT          UNIT COST                    TOTAL

TEMPORARY FEATURES
                1    MOBILIZATION (10% of material costs)                                              LS                  1          $4,560,600                     $4,560,600
                2    TEMPORARY TRAFFIC CONTROL (5% of material costs)                                  LS                  1          $2,280,300                     $2,280,300
                3    EROSION CONTROL (2.5% of material costs)                                          LS                  1          $1,140,200                     $1,140,200
                4    POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN (1.5% of material costs)                                   LS                  1            $684,100                          $684,100
                5    CONSTRUCTION SURVEY WORK (5% of material costs)                                   LS                  1          $2,280,300                     $2,280,300
EARTHWORK
                6    EMBANKMENT, RESERVOIR-NORTH                                                       CY            238,444                  $20                    $4,768,889
                7    EMBANKMENT, RESERVOIR-SOUTH                                                       CY             30,289                  $20                         $605,778
                8    EMBANKMENT, ROADWAY                                                               CY            475,040                  $20                    $9,500,800
ROADWORK
                9    SIGN & STRIPE REMOVAL                                                             FT            100,950                 $1.50                        $151,425
                10   REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES AND OBSTRUCTIONS (1.5% of widened roadways)                 LS                  1            $671,800                          $671,800
                11   ASPHALT SAWCUTTING                                                                LF             67,300                 $1.50                        $100,950
                12   COLD PLANE PAVEMENT REMOVAL, 1-2 INCH DEEP                                        SY            104,689                   $5                         $523,444
                13   SUBGRADE STABILIZATION                                                            SY            100,156                  $20                    $2,003,111
                14   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 4-LN VERY CONSTRAINED (8 ft)                           LF             16,400                 $620                   $10,168,000
                15   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 4-LN VERY CONSTRAINED (16 ft)                          LF                 7,550              $685                    $5,171,750
                16   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 4-LN CONSTRAINED (8 ft)                                LF                 2,500              $655                    $1,637,500
                17   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 4-LN CONSTRAINED (16 ft)                               LF                 5,850              $720                    $4,212,000
                18   FULL DEPTH RECONSTRUCTION: 4-LN UNCONSTRAINED                                     LF                 950                $685                         $650,750
                19   CONCRETE BARRIER                                                                  LF                 5,850               $60                         $351,000
                20   MULTI-USE PATH                                                                    LF             32,910                  $60                    $1,974,600
                21   MINOR INTERSECTION IMPROVEMENTS                                                   EA                  5               $16,000                         $80,000
                22   INTERSECTION STREET LIGHTING                                                      EA                  4               $12,000                         $48,000
                23   BUS STOP IMPROVEMENTS                                                             EA                  5                $5,000                         $25,000
                24   GUARDRAIL                                                                         LF             14,000                  $30                         $420,000
STRUCTURES
                25   STRUCTURES, WIDENING                                                              EA                  3          $1,598,000                     $4,794,000
                26   OVERPASS STRUCTURE, WIDENING                                                      SF             25,600                 $350                    $8,960,000
STORMWATER FACILITIES
                27   WATER QUALITY FACILITY                                                            LS                  1          $2,300,000                     $2,300,000
                28   CULVERT EXTENSIONS                                                                EA                  1            $250,000                          $250,000
PERMANENT TRAFFIC CONTROL
                29   STRIPING                                                                          LF            201,900                 $3.20                        $646,080
                30   LEGENDS                                                                           EA                  20                $450                           $9,000
                31   CROSSWALKS                                                                        EA                  5                $3,000                         $15,000
                32   MILE MARKER POSTS                                                                 EA                  13                $100                           $1,300
                33   SIGNING (2 sides, 500' O.C. avg)                                                  EA                 135                $300                          $40,380
                34   TRAFFIC SIGNALS                                                                   EA                  2            $200,000                          $400,000
TOTALS
                     SUBTOTAL OF ITEMS                                                                                                                              $71,426,057
                     SOFT COSTS (30%)                                                                                                                               $21,427,817
                     CONSTRUCTION CONTINGENCIES (30%)                                                                                                               $21,427,817
                     CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING (10%)                                                                                                                  $7,142,606


                35   RIGHT-OF-WAY ACQUISITION                                                          SF            225,390                 $2.50                        $563,475
                36   TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT                                                   SF            673,000                 $1.00                        $673,000
                     SUBTOTAL OF ITEMS                                                                                                                             $122,660,772
                     ROUNDED COST ESTIMATE                                                                                                                         $130,000,000




S:\Projects\2009\P09042-019 (ODOT OR 126 Facilities Plan)\Otak Figures and Cost Estimates\Cost Estimates\Cost Estimate_4 lane                                                 6/20/2012 11:20 AM
                                                              PRELIMINARY COST ESTIMATE
                                                                               Otak, Inc.
SECTION                                                                                                                            COUNTY


                                   OR126W: Fern Ridge Corridor                                                                                     Lane County
                     Spot Improvements with Multi-Use Path on Southern Alignment
Otak Proj No.        KIND OF WORK                                                                        LENGTH     DATE           ROADWAY DESIGNER

                          Grading, Drainage, Structure, Paving, Signing, Illumination, and Roadside
          16112                                                                                          6.4 mi        6/20/12                         Otak, Inc.
                                                        Development
     ITEM NUMBER                                        ITEM DESCRIPTION                                     UNIT     AMOUNT          UNIT COST                 TOTAL

TEMPORARY FEATURES
                1    MOBILIZATION (10% of material costs)                                               LS                  1               $441,600                    $441,600
                2    TEMPORARY TRAFFIC CONTROL (5% of material costs)                                   LS                  1               $220,800                    $220,800
                3    EROSION CONTROL (2.5% of material costs)                                           LS                  1               $110,400                    $110,400
                4    POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN (1.5% of material costs)                                    LS                  1                $66,300                     $66,300
                5    CONSTRUCTION SURVEY WORK (5% of material costs)                                    LS                  1               $220,800                    $220,800
EARTHWORK
                6    EMBANKMENT, MULTI-USE PATH                                                         CY             53,600                   $20                  $1,072,000
ROADWORK
                7    REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES AND OBSTRUCTIONS (1.5% of widened roadways)                  LS                  1                $65,300                     $65,300
                8    MULTI-USE PATH                                                                     LF             40,200                   $60                  $2,412,000
                9    ADDITIONAL TURN LANE                                                               LF                 7,575               $160                  $1,212,000
                10   MINOR INTERSECTION IMPROVEMENTS                                                    EA                  5                $16,000                     $80,000
                11   PEDESTRIAN REFUGE ISLAND (8'x16')                                                  EA                  2                 $1,200                      $2,400
                12   INTERSECTION STREET LIGHTING                                                       EA                  4                $12,000                     $48,000
                13   BUS STOP IMPROVEMENTS                                                              EA                  5                 $5,000                     $25,000
PERMANENT TRAFFIC CONTROL
                14   STRIPING                                                                           LF                 7,575               $3.20                     $24,240
                15   LEGENDS                                                                            EA                  20                 $450                       $9,000
                16   CROSSWALKS                                                                         EA                  5                 $3,000                     $15,000
                17   SIGNING (2 sides, 200' O.C. avg)                                                   EA                  76                 $300                      $22,725
                18   TRAFFIC SIGNALS                                                                    EA                  2               $250,000                    $500,000
TOTALS
                     SUBTOTAL OF ITEMS                                                                                                                               $6,547,565
                     SOFT COSTS (30%)                                                                                                                                $1,964,270
                     CONSTRUCTION CONTINGENCIES (30%)                                                                                                                $1,964,270
                     CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING (10%)                                                                                                                     $654,757


                19   RIGHT-OF-WAY ACQUISITION                                                           AC                 0.00               $3,500                         $0
                20   TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT                                                    AC                 9.23               $1,500                     $13,843
                     SUBTOTAL OF ITEMS                                                                                                                              $11,144,703
                     ROUNDED COST ESTIMATE                                                                                                                          $15,000,000




S:\Projects\2009\P09042-019 (ODOT OR 126 Facilities Plan)\Otak Figures and Cost Estimates\Cost Estimates\Cost Estimate_spot impvts                           6/20/2012 11:05 AM
Left Turn Lane Analysis
  Project:                 OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan                       Average Vehicle Length in Queue =     25 ft
  Scenario(s):             No-Build         Rough estimate because we do not expect trucks to be making these turn movements

2011 Existing 30th HV
                            Approach   Number of   Number of    Volume     Volume     Combined                             ODOT        Max.   Storage
                                                                                                         LT    ODOT LT
Intersection                 (NB,SB,   Advancing   Opposing    Opposing   Advancing    Volume     LT %                     Criteria    Est.   Length
                                                                                                         Vol   Threshold
                             EB,WB)      Lanes       Lanes       (Vo)       (Va)       (÷ Lane)                             Met?      Queue     (ft)

Driveway 1 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         826         406        1232      0%      1       10       Consider

Driveway 2 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         825         405        1230      0%      0       10         No
Driveway 3 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         822         405        1227      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 4 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         820         405        1225      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 5 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         815         405        1220      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 6 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         817         406        1223      0%      1       10       Consider

Driveway 7 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         820         407        1227      0%      2       10       Consider
Driveway 8 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         816         410        1226      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 9 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         816         410        1226      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 10 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         806         410        1216      2%     10       10         Yes        1       75
Driveway 11 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         805         400        1205      1%      5       10       Consider

Driveway 12 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         800         400        1200      4%     15       10         Yes        1       75

Driveway 13 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         800         391        1191      0%      1       10       Consider

Shady Rest Dr & Hwy 126        EB          1           1         895         400        1295      0%      0       10         No
Lake Side Dr & Hwy 126         EB          1           1         895         400        1295      0%      0       10         No
Richmond St & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         930         425        1355      0%      0       10         No

Ken Neilsen Rd & Hwy 126       WB          1           1         435         925        1360      1%      5       10       Consider


2035 Future 30th HV (No-Build)
                            Approach   Number of   Number of    Volume     Volume     Combined                             ODOT        Max.   Storage
                                                                                                         LT    ODOT LT
Intersection                 (NB,SB,   Advancing   Opposing    Opposing   Advancing    Volume     LT %                     Criteria    Est.   Length
                                                                                                         Vol   Threshold
                             EB,WB)      Lanes       Lanes       (Vo)       (Va)       (÷ Lane)                             Met?      Queue     (ft)

Driveway 1 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1116        561        1677      0%      1       10       Consider

Driveway 2 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1110        560        1670      0%      0       10         No
Driveway 3 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1110        560        1670      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 4 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1110        560        1670      0%      0       10         No
Driveway 5 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1105        560        1665      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 6 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1110        561        1671      0%      1       10       Consider
Driveway 7 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1115        560        1675      1%      5       10       Consider

Driveway 8 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1111        560        1671      0%      0       10         No
Driveway 9 & Hwy 126           EB          1           1         1111        560        1671      0%      0       10         No

Driveway 10 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         1096        560        1656      3%     15       10         Yes        1       75

Driveway 11 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         1095        545        1640      1%      5       10       Consider
Driveway 12 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         1090        545        1635      4%     20       10         Yes        2       75

Driveway 13 & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         1090        531        1621      0%      1       10       Consider

Shady Rest Dr & Hwy 126        EB          1           1         1215        545        1760      0%      0       10         No
Lake Side Dr & Hwy 126         EB          1           1         1215        545        1760      0%      0       10         No

Richmond St & Hwy 126          EB          1           1         1265        580        1845      0%      0       10         No

Ken Neilsen Rd & Hwy 126       WB          1           1         590        1255        1845      0%      5       10       Consider



*The "Consider" note applies when there are high through volumes but less than 10 left turning vehicles.

ODOT LEFT TURN CRITERIA IS BASED ON THE 8-13-03 LEFT TURN CRITERIA
MAX QUEUE AND STORAGE ESTIMATES BASED ON GARD METHOD




                                                                                                                                            8/31/2012
Right-Turn Lane Analysis
  Project:                 OR 126W Fern Ridge Corridor Plan
  Scenario(s):             No-Build

2011 Existing 30th HV
                           Approach   2-lane or     Volume           ODOT RT
                            (NB,SB,   Multi-lane   Advancing   RT      Lane    ODOT RT NCHRP RT    Taper     RT Lane    NCHRP     NCHRP
Intersection                EB,WB)    Highway        (Va)      Vol    Criteria  Lane?   Volume    Criteria   Criteria   Taper?   RT Lane?

Driveway 1 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        826       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 2 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        825       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Driveway 3 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        822       2      20     Shoulder    2         20         40        No        No

Driveway 4 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        820       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No

Driveway 5 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        815       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Driveway 6 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        817       2      20     Shoulder    2         20         40        No        No

Driveway 7 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        820       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Driveway 8 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        816       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 9 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane        816       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 10 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane        806       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No
Driveway 11 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane        805      10      20     Shoulder   10         20         40        No        No

Driveway 12 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane        800      10      20     Shoulder   10         20         40        No        No

Driveway 13 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane        800       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Ellmaker Rd & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane        915      125     20       Yes      125        20         40        Yes       Yes
Shady Rest Dr & Hwy 126       WB        2-lane        895       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No

Lake Side Dr & Hwy 126        WB        2-lane        896       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Central Rd & Hwy 126          EB        2-lane        397      10      28       No       10         31         68        No        No
Central Rd & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1032       2      20     Shoulder    2         20         40        No        No
Fisher Rd & Hwy 126           WB        2-lane        925       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Richmond St & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane        930       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No

Ken Neilsen Rd & Hwy 126      EB        2-lane        435       0      25       No        0         27         63        No        No


2035 Future 30th HV (No-Build)
                           Approach   2-lane or     Volume           ODOT RT
                            (NB,SB,   Multi-lane   Advancing   RT      Lane    ODOT RT NCHRP RT    Taper     RT Lane    NCHRP     NCHRP
Intersection                EB,WB)    Highway        (Va)      Vol    Criteria  Lane?   Volume    Criteria   Criteria   Taper?   RT Lane?

Driveway 1 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1116       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 2 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1110       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Driveway 3 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1110       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Driveway 4 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1110       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Driveway 5 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1105       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No

Driveway 6 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1110       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Driveway 7 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1115       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No
Driveway 8 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1111       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 9 & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1111       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 10 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane       1096       1      20     Shoulder    1         20         40        No        No

Driveway 11 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane       1095      15      20     Shoulder   15         20         40        No        No

Driveway 12 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane       1090      15      20     Shoulder   15         20         40        No        No
Driveway 13 & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane       1090       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No

Ellmaker Rd & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane       1245      170     20       Yes      170        20         40        Yes       Yes

Shady Rest Dr & Hwy 126       WB        2-lane       1215       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Lake Side Dr & Hwy 126        WB        2-lane       1216       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Central Rd & Hwy 126          EB        2-lane        545      15      20       No       15         20         48        No        No

Central Rd & Hwy 126          WB        2-lane       1405       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Fisher Rd & Hwy 126           WB        2-lane       1255       5      20     Shoulder    5         20         40        No        No

Richmond St & Hwy 126         WB        2-lane       1265       0      20     Shoulder    0         20         40        No        No
Ken Neilsen Rd & Hwy 126      EB        2-lane        590       0      20       No        0         20         41        No        No
                                        Signal Warrant Analysis




                MUTCD Signal Warrant 9: Intersection Near a Grade Crossing

  Scenario: 2035 No-Build P.M. Peak Hour (DHV)
                                         Crossing        Stop Bar
                              Daily      Approach       Distance                        Adjusted
                               Rail       Large         from Rail     Major     Minor    Minor     Warrant
     Intersection             Traffic    Vehicle %      Crossing     Volume    Volume   Volume*     Met
OR 126W/Huston Road            2**          4%            45 feet     1,635      95        65       Yes
OR 126W/Central Road           2**          4%            50 feet     1,950      120       82       Yes




  *See Tables 4C-2, 4C-3 and 4C-4 for adjustment factors.
  **Currently one to two trains per week but assumed as two per day in 2035.
                 Oregon Department of Transportation
                           Transportation Development Branch
                               Transportation Planning Analysis Unit

                                                                                        1
                    Preliminary Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis
    Major Street: OR 126W                               Minor Street: Huston Rd
    Project:      OR 126W Corridor Plan                 City/County: Veneta
    Year:         2035                                  Alternative: No-Build
                          Preliminary Signal Warrant Volumes
         Number of                     ADT on major street               ADT on minor street, highest
        Approach lanes                  approaching from                          approaching
                                          both directions                            volume
      Major         Minor          Percent of standard warrants          percent of standard warrants
      Street        Street              100         70                        100          70
                           Case A: Minimum Vehicular Traffic
        1             1                8,850              6,200               2,650              1,850
    2 or more         1               10,600              7,400               2,650              1,850
    2 or more     2 or more           10,600              7,400               3,550              2,500
        1         2 or more            8,850              6,200               3,550              2,500
                      Case B: Interruption of Continuous Traffic
         1            1           13,300        9,300        1,350            950
    2 or more         1           15,900       11,100        1,350            950
    2 or more     2 or more       15,900       11,100        1,750          1,250
         1        2 or more       13,300        9,300        1,750          1,250
       5.65% of the above ADT volumes is equal to the MUTCD vehicles per hour (vph)
             100 percent of standard warrants
           x 70 percent of standard warrants2
                        Preliminary Signal Warrant Calculation
                     Street  Number of                 Warrant       Approach                Warrant Met
                                Lanes                  Volumes       Volumes
      Case         Major          1                     6,200         16,350
                                                                                                   No
        A          Minor          1                     1,850           250
      Case         Major          1                     9,300         16,350
                                                                                                   No
        B          Minor          1                      950            250
    Analyst and Date: DKS 02/29/12                   Reviewer and Date:



1
  Meeting preliminary signal warrants does not guarantee that a signal will be installed. Before a signal can
be installed a traffic signal investigation must be conducted or reviewed by the Region Traffic Manager.
Traffic signal warrants must be met and the State Traffic Engineer's approval obtained before a traffic
signal can be installed on a state highway.
2
 Used due to 85th percentile speed in excess of 40 mph or isolated community with population of less than
10,000.
TPAU Procedure Manual                                1                                            08/31/12
Sigwarnts.doc
                 Oregon Department of Transportation
                           Transportation Development Branch
                               Transportation Planning Analysis Unit

                                                                                        1
                    Preliminary Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis
    Major Street: OR 126W                               Minor Street: Central Rd
    Project:      OR 126W Corridor Plan                 City/County: Veneta
    Year:         2035                                  Alternative: No-Build
                          Preliminary Signal Warrant Volumes
         Number of                     ADT on major street               ADT on minor street, highest
        Approach lanes                  approaching from                          approaching
                                          both directions                            volume
      Major         Minor          Percent of standard warrants          percent of standard warrants
      Street        Street              100         70                        100          70
                           Case A: Minimum Vehicular Traffic
        1             1                8,850              6,200               2,650              1,850
    2 or more         1               10,600              7,400               2,650              1,850
    2 or more     2 or more           10,600              7,400               3,550              2,500
        1         2 or more            8,850              6,200               3,550              2,500
                      Case B: Interruption of Continuous Traffic
         1            1           13,300        9,300        1,350            950
    2 or more         1           15,900       11,100        1,350            950
    2 or more     2 or more       15,900       11,100        1,750          1,250
         1        2 or more       13,300        9,300        1,750          1,250
       5.65% of the above ADT volumes is equal to the MUTCD vehicles per hour (vph)
             100 percent of standard warrants
           x 70 percent of standard warrants2
                        Preliminary Signal Warrant Calculation
                     Street  Number of                 Warrant       Approach                Warrant Met
                                Lanes                  Volumes       Volumes
      Case         Major          1                     6,200         19,500
                                                                                                   No
        A          Minor          1                     1,850           400
      Case         Major          1                     9,300         19,500
                                                                                                   No
        B          Minor          1                      950            400
    Analyst and Date: DKS 02/29/12                   Reviewer and Date:



1
  Meeting preliminary signal warrants does not guarantee that a signal will be installed. Before a signal can
be installed a traffic signal investigation must be conducted or reviewed by the Region Traffic Manager.
Traffic signal warrants must be met and the State Traffic Engineer's approval obtained before a traffic
signal can be installed on a state highway.
2
 Used due to 85th percentile speed in excess of 40 mph or isolated community with population of less than
10,000.
TPAU Procedure Manual                                1                                            08/31/12
Sigwarnts.doc
