       APPENDIX A



N OTICE OF P REPARATION (NOP)
 AND R ESPONSES TO THE NOP
  Mayor: Susan Garner                                                           City Manager: Brian Loventhal
  Vice-Mayor: Curtis Rogers                                                     City Clerk: Andrea Chelemengos
  Councilmember: Marshall Anstandig                                             Finance Officer: Sue L'Heureux
  Councilmember: Burton Craig                                                   Building Official: Howard Bell
  Councilmember: Lana Malloy
                                         City of Monte Sereno
Notice of Preparation
SUBJECT:         Notice of Preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact Report

In implementing its duties under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the City of Monte
Sereno, serving as Lead Agency, intends to prepare an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the
Monte Sereno General Plan Amendment, Zoning Code Amendment, and Prezoning (hereinafter
"proposed project") to add a new land use designation to the General Plan Land Use Element (Multi-
Family Residential, 3 to 8 dwelling units per acre) and other related actions discussed below. In
accordance with Section 15082 of the CEQA Guidelines, the City of Monte Sereno has prepared this
Notice of Preparation (NOP) to provide responsible and trustee agencies with sufficient information
describing the proposed project and its potential environmental effects.

Lead Agency Name                      City of Monte Sereno

Street Address                        18041 Saratoga-Los Gatos Rd.

City/State/Zip                        Monte Sereno, CA 95030

Contact                               Erin Ventura, Associate City Planner

Phone Number                          (408) 354-7635

Email Address                         erin@montesereno.org


The City of Monte Sereno will be the Lead Agency and will prepare an Environmental Impact Report
(EIR) for the project identified below. If you are a public agency, we need to know the views of your
agency as to the scope and content of the environmental information which is germane to your agency's
statutory responsibilities in connection with the proposed project. Your agency may need to use the EIR
prepared by our agency when considering your permit or other approval for the project. If you are a
member of the public, you are also invited to provide comments on the scope and content of the EIR.
The project description, location, and the potential environmental effects are included below.

As specified by the CEQA Guidelines, the NOP will be circulated for a 30-day review period from
Friday, October 26, 2012 to Monday November 26, 2012. Due to the time limits mandated by State
law, your response must be sent at the earliest possible date but not later than the end of the review
period (November 26, 2012). Please send or email your response to Erin Ventura, Associate City Planner
at the contact information provided above.

The City will be conducting a public scoping meeting on the proposed project on Tuesday November 13,
2012 from 7:00 to 9:00 PM at City Hall, located at 18041 Saratoga Los Gatos Road, Monte Sereno,
California. The meeting will include an overview of the project and anticipated environmental issues to
be addressed in the EIR.
Project       Monte Sereno General Plan Amendment, Zoning Code Amendment and Prezoning
Title:

Project       Adjacent to the City of Monte Sereno               Santa Clara County
Location:
                         City (nearest)                               County


              The 4.45-acre project site is located at 18840 Saratoga Los Gatos Road/State Route 9 in
              the unincorporated Santa Clara County, adjacent to the City of Monte Sereno. Figure 1,
              Regional Location, illustrates the regional context of the project; Figure 2, Project
              Vicinity, identifies the site in relation to the City of Monte Sereno and State Route 9;
              Figure 3, Project Aerial, shows approximate project site boundaries on an aerial image;
              and Figure 4, Proposed Revised Figure LU-2 Land Use Designations, presents the revised
              General Plan land use map identifying the addition of the new proposed land use
              designation.



Project Description:      The proposed project is a general plan amendment, zoning code
(brief)                   amendment, and pre-zoning the project site. The City is proposing these
                          changes as part of their process to implement Housing Element Program H-
                          3.10.
                          General Plan Amendment: The proposed project includes adding a new
                          land use designation to the General Plan Land Use Element (Multi-Family
                          Residential, 3 to 8 D.U./Acre), adding a text description of the new land
                          use, and changing the general plan land use map to include and show the
                          location of the new land use. Figure 4, Proposed Revised Figure LU-2,
                          Land Use Designations, is the proposed new general plan land use map.
                          Zoning Code Amendment: The proposed project includes the creation of a
                          new zoning district to the City of Monte Sereno Planning and Zoning Code:
                          RM-Multi-Family Residential District. The creation of this new zoning
                          district includes both text and map changes.
                          Pre-zoning: The proposed project includes pre-zoning the 4.45-acre project
                          site to the new RM-Multi-Family Residential District, which is consistent
                          with the proposed new land use designation. The pre-zoning would allow
                          for a maximum of 35 dwelling units on the project site.

                          Annexation: Future development of the property will require annexation by
                          the City of Monte Sereno. Annexation will be considered at the request of
                          the property owner.
                                                                                                                Galt
                                                                                                                                                88


                            Vallejo       80                               12

                  780                                                                                                Lodi
                                                                                         160
                                                                                                                                                                                         Ang
                                                                                                                     5
                                                                           4
                              80                                                                            Stockton
                                                                                                                                                                 4




                                                                                                              Lathrop                                   Escalon
                                           Oakland                                                                                                                          108
 San Francisco
                                                                                                                                      99
                                                                                                                                                                      Oakdale
                                                                                           580              Tracy

                                                                                                                                   Modesto                                  Waterford
                                                                                                                         132
                                                880              680
                                                                                                                                                Ceres                Hughson

                                   101
                                                                                                                                   Patterson
                               280                                                                                                                             Turlock
                                                                                                                                           33
                                         Palo                                                                                                                          99
                                         Alto                        San Jose                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                     Livingston
                             Project                                                                                                             Newman                                    Me
                            Location                  85
                                                                85
                        1                                                                                                                             Gustine
                                                                                         101
                                                           Monte Sereno                                                                                         165
                                                                                                                                                                                          59
                                                           17                                    Morgan Hill

                                                                                                                                                         152
                                                                                                                            152
                                                                                                    Gilroy                                                        Los Banos
                                                           Santa Cruz
Pa




                                                                                         152            152
                                                                                                                                           San Luis
                                                                       1                                                                   Reservoir
                                                                                                               156
ci




                                                                                                      156            Hollister                                         5
 fic




                                                                                         156

                                                                                1        183
                                                                                                 Salinas
       Oc




                                                                       Monterey
                                                                                    68
            ea




                                                                                                              Gonzales
                                                                Carmel
                                                                                                               101
                                                                                                                         Soledad
                  n




                                                                                                                                                 25
                                                                1

                                                                       Big                                                        Greenfield
                                                                       Sur




                                                                                                                               King City
                                                                                                                                                                                        Coalin




   Not to Scale


                                                                                                                                                                      Figure 1
                                                                                                                                  Regional Location
                                         Monte Sereno General Plan Amendment, Zoning Code Amendment,
                                                                                   and Prezoning NOP
                                                                                                                                            1

                                                                                                                                                                                  Atascadero
                    Project Site




                                           City of
                                         Monte Sereno




                                                     Sa
                                                       ra
                                                          to
                                                            ga
                                                                 Lo
                                                                   sG
                                                                      at




                                                                                                            7
                                                                        os




                                                                                                        e1
                                                                             Rd
                                                                               /S




                                                                                                       out
                                                                                  ta
                                                                                    te




                                                                                                      te R
                                                                                         Ro
                                                                                           ut




                                                                                                      Sta
                                                                                              e
                                                                                                  9




                 Approximate Project Site Location                                                              Source: Google Earth 2011
0   1,400 feet

                                                                                                                             Figure 2
                                                                                                            Project Vicinity
                              Monte Sereno General Plan Amendment, Zoning Code Amendment, and Prezoning NOP
                              Sara
                                  toga
                                         Los G
                                              atos
                                                     Rd/S
                                                         tate
                                                                Rou
                                                                   te 9




               Approximate Project Site Boundary                                      Source: County of Santa Clara 2009
0   120 feet
                                                                                                      Google Earth 2011

                                                                                                            Figure 3
                                                                                           Project Aerial
                              Monte Sereno General Plan Amendment, Zoning Code Amendment, and Prezoning NOP
not to scale                                                Source: City of Monte Sereno 2012


                                                                                  Figure 4
               Proposed Revised Figure LU-2, Land Use Designations
                      Monte Sereno General Plan Amendment, Zoning Code Amendment,
                                                                and Prezoning NOP
                                         Monte Sereno Scoping Meeting Summary

Letters Submitted:
Letter 1: Adjacent Property Owners. Response to Notice of Preparation of a Draft EIR Monte Sereno General Plan Amendment,
Zoning Code Adjustment and Prezoning Presented by Adjacent Property Owners. November 13, 2012
Letter 2: Greg Hall November 12, 2012
Letter 3: Jeffrey Bryant November 1, 2012

Public Comment:
Five Speakers. PC3 is property owner. Only noted additional comments that are not in the submitted letters.

Source    Comment
1         Scientific Methods: Not used in previous study
1         Define MM: who, what, how
1         Aesthetics: site lines, potential roof heights, neighbor's views, privacy, tree coverage, "feel,"
          illumination, 9x pop. increase
1         Population: 9x increase in humans and 70 dogs or cats
1         Transportation: baseline + increase
1         Traffic Hazard: Hazards and traffic management infrastructure (lighting, signage,etc)
1         Traffic: seek opinions from CalTrans, VTA, Ca Scenic Hwy Commission
1         Pollution: auto, home, and construction emissions
1         Utilities: existing water sewer, power and sanitation supplies and disposal. Inc any necessary
          infrastructure. Consult SC Water District
1         Bio: Wildlife including nesting raptors. Seek F & G opinion
1         Public Welfare: Emergency services + police
1         Urban Sprawl: Study of incremental impacts on all environmental issues and nearby properties
          requesting RM
1         Information used in the IS should be discarded: esp traffic (incorrect baseline), pollution study
          (utilized a baseline of hotel and restaurant)
2         Include additional info from DFG Endangered Species Act Permitting
2     Include letter of opinion from DFG
2     Include Opinion Letter from CalTrans
2     Include Opinion Letter from VTA
2     Include Opinion Letter from Scenic Hwy Commission
2     Include Opinion Letter from S. C. Water District
2     Include Opinion Letter from County Sheriff
2     Will EIR evaluate impact of neighboring properties Signing onto MF?
2     Formal legal definition of RM? If so, included in EIR? E.g. difference between R-1-8 and RM?
2     Include possibility of "Mixed Use" Zoning going in?
2     Include Density parameters?
3     Flora and Fauna: Contact local Audubon Society
3     Flora and Fauna: Contact Sierra Club
3     Flora and Fauna: Contact SCC Parks
3     Encroachment on wildlife movement?
3     Contact Public Utilities: Sanitation District, SCC Water utilities, San Jose Water Co, PG & E
3     Contact transportation: VTA, MTC.
3     Transportation Issues: repaving hwy, Light on Austin Way, room for driveways, street access to
      each home.
3     Contact County Sherriff's office
3     Contact Los Gatos Police Department
3     Talk to Saratoga Planning Department
3     Talk to Los Gatos Planning Department
3     Talk to neighbors on both sides of HWY 9 (Noise and traffic issues for all who drive Hwy 9, Quito
      Rd., Austin Way, El Camino Grande and Saratoga)
?     How # of units to be evaluated are determined? Max?
?     Will EIR identify opps. and constraints of the site?
PC1   Evaluate nesting raptors
PC2   Design Review, clarify City process for aesthetics
PC3   Historic Study ­ Interior is open for evaluation
PC3   Look at Alternative Site design (to be submitted to city)
PC3   Evaluate Zoning Ordinance
PC3   Alternatives Analysis should include Alternative design (application forthcoming)
PC3   Incorporate Baseline into EIR
PC3   Evaluate County Allowances
PC4   HWY 9 and Austin are "raceways" ­ eval. safety
PC5   Concur with safety concerns. Speedbumps are not a deterrent. Roadways currently unsafe.
PC5   Underground utilities required?
PC5   Utilities: Creekflow impact
PC5   Contact ABAG and LAFCO
        APPENDIX B



H OUSING E LEMENT P ROGRAM 3.10
   I MPLEMENTATION H ISTORY
INTRODUCTION:

The purpose of this document is to provide a timeline and brief summary of the background
relating to annexation of unincorporated pockets, the development of the City's General Plan and
the implementation of Housing Element Program 3.10. This program requires that by the end of
July 2011 the City study whether or not to zone for multifamily and begin annexation of an 11
acre portion of the County unincorporated pocket (study area). The City is not compelled to
rezone or to annex the study area. However, if the City Council determines that a change in
zoning and annexation is not appropriate for the study area, then the Housing Element Program
3.10 requires the City to look at other locations within the City to provide for multifamily
opportunities by the end of December 2012.

BACKGROUND:
June 1, 2010. The City Council conducted public hearings and approved the Environmental
   Determination for the Housing Element revision, and adopted the proposed Housing
   Element.
June 8, 2010. The City staff transmits the adopted Housing Element to the State Department of
   Housing and Community Development for their review and certification.
August 3, 2010. At this City Council meeting the City Council considered the implementation
   process for Housing Element program 3.10.
September 7, 2010. The State Department of Housing and Community Development transmits a
   letter to the City to certify the City's adopted Housing Element is compliant with State law.
September 30, 2010. The City Council conducted a public workshop to inform the public and
   receive testimony about the housing requirements of the State and the City's Housing
   Element program 3.10. Staff presented information on what the City has done to this point
   regarding the Housing Element implementation and what the next steps are in the process.
March 15, 2011. The City conducted a public workshop to receive public input on the various
   alternatives to comply with the City Housing Element program 3.10. Specifically,
   Alternative 1-is to continue to evaluate the 11 acres of County unincorporated land for
   multifamily zoning. Alternative 2-is to examine other areas of the City to provide for
   multifamily opportunities. Alternative 3-is to revise the City Housing Element and negotiate
   certification with the State. There was no action taken by the Council on the alternatives.
   At this meeting the City Council also accepted the Annual Housing Element Progress report
   for the 2010 calendar year.
April 5, 2011. At this City Council meeting the Council received public comment on the next
   steps in the process. The Council determined to conduct another study session on the issue
   and set the date for May 3, 2011.
May 3, 2011. The City Council conducted a study session on Housing Element program 3.10.
  After public input the Council discussed the various alternatives. Alternative 1-is to continue
  to evaluate the 11 acres of County unincorporated land for multifamily zoning. Alternative
  2-is to examine other areas of the City to provide for multifamily opportunities. Alternative
  3-is to revise the City Housing Element and negotiate certification with the State. The
  Council directed staff to pursue Alternative #2, with a 4-1 vote.
June 21, 2011. The City Council discussed the process for identifying future alternatives for the
   implementation of Housing Element program 3.10. Following public input there was
   Council consensus to direct staff to bring a draft of the criteria to be used for identifying and
   considering alternative locations to the August 2nd Council meeting.
August 2, 2011. The City Council discussed the criteria to be used for possible site
   consideration. Although there was consensus on the criteria as revised by the Council, the
   Council did not formally adopt the criteria.
November 15, 2011. The City Council conducted a special meeting. The meeting was held at
   the local elementary school multi purpose room to accommodate the anticipated large
   audience as the City mailed public notices to all residents in the City and County pockets of
   the meeting. At this meeting the Council considered the various site alternatives developed
   by staff for potential multi-family use consideration. The potential sites were developed by
   staff using the site selection criteria discussed previously by the City Council. There were
   essentially, five distinct areas proposed by City Staff, including the property located at 18840
   Saratoga Los Gatos Road (La Hacienda). By a 4-1 vote the Council directed staff to proceed
   in evaluating the La hacienda site for potential multi-family uses.
February 7, 2012. The City Council discussed the density ranges and housing types to consider
   for the environmental review of multi-family uses on the La Hacienda site. After public
   comment and discussion by the Council, the Council directed staff to proceed with a study of
   3-8 units per acre (by a 4-1 vote).
   At this meeting the City Council also authorized staff to execute a professional service
   agreement for the environmental review necessary to process the City's proposed general
   plan and prezoning amendments
March 20, 2012. The City Council accepted the Annual Housing Element Progress report and
   directed staff to file the necessary documents with HCD.
September 18, 2012. The City Council conducted a public Hearing to consider a Mitigated
   Negative declaration for the General Plan Amendment and Multifamily Zoning Ordinance.
October 16, 2012. The City Council received public testimony and authorized a professional
   service agreement to prepare and Environmental Impact Report related to the multifamily
   zoning and General Plan amendment.
November 13, 2012. The City conducted a public scoping meeting for the preparation of the
   Environmental Impact Report for the General Plan and Municipal Code amendment.
              APPENDIX C



H ISTORICAL AND A RCHITECTURAL E VALUATION
       AND P RELIMINARY P EER R EVIEW
                                    La Hacienda Restaurant & Inn
                                    18840 Los Gatos-Saratoga Road
                                       Monte Sereno, California

               DRAFT HISTORIC RESOURCE EVALUATION - PEER REVIEW

                                           December 12, 2012

INTRODUCTION

The property known as La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn was originally built as a Japanese-inspired resort
from 1901-1903 and currently operates as a restaurant and catering facility owned by Stanley Group, Inc.
On March 31, 2008, Archives & Architecture completed a Historical and Architectural Evaluation of
the property (2008 Report). Carey & Co. was engaged to conduct a peer review of the existing report,
with particular focus on all building descriptions, significance evaluations and assessments of integrity.


METHODOLOGY

Carey & Co. first reviewed the existing Historical and Architectural Evaluation report prepared by
Archives & Architecture. A site visit was conducted on March 15, 2012, to verify existing conditions at
the site, and to identify significant architectural features or other potentially historic aspects of the
building complex. Carey & Co. then undertook archival research, visiting the San Francisco Public
Library, the San Jose Public Library, and the Saratoga Historical Society. A second site visit was
conducted on December 3, 2012. This report summarizes issues in the 2008 report that Carey & Co. feels
require correction, clarification, or elaboration, and notes where Carey & Co. is in agreement with and
supports the report's findings, conclusions, and recommendations.


SUMMARY OF FINDINGS

Carey & Co. is in support of the 2008 Report's findings that:

    1. The property does have significant historical associations within the local community, as the
       Nippon Mura resort, but the building and setting do not embody these associations in a cohesive
       manner.
    2. The existing buildings do not appear to qualify for the California Register of Historical
       Resources, so demolition of the buildings at the La Hacienda site would not result in a significant
       impact under the California Environmental Quality Act.
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                              December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


    3. The property retains little of its historic integrity with regard to the Nippon Mura era, and
       retains some, but not all of its historic integrity with respect to the property's use as La Hacienda
       Restaurant and Inn.

Carey & Co. has found that elaboration and correction is required in the following areas:

    1. The Nippon Mura resort was a stop along the Peninsular Interurban Railway, a piece of the
       history of transportation in Santa Clara County that deserves further research, especially to
       determine if any physical remnants of the depot remain.
    2. The report evaluates integrity before establishing significance, which contradicts the regulatory
       framework of both the National and California Registers. While Carey & Co. agrees with the
       conclusions, this report clarifies the proper order of evaluation.


PROPERTY DESCRIPTION

The subject property is located on Los Gatos-Saratoga Road on the border of Monte Sereno, California.
It consists of a complex of buildings set back from the road and bordered on all sides by paved parking or
driveways. A line of cypress trees defines the property edge at the street, while handfuls of various types
of trees are scattered among the site. As one approaches the complex from the entry drive, the two story
main building, the original Nippon Mura dining room and the later La Hacienda Restaurant, looms
directly to the south, past a low rock wall planter containing more cypress trees. Slightly north of the
main building and to the east of the entry drive stands the conference center, which contains one of the
original Nippon Mura buildings. To the east beyond the conference center, separated by a parking lot
and drive, is a one story building containing offices. The one-story motel buildings extend to the west of
the main building, attached by a porte cochere, and are laid out around a courtyard containing a pool.
The south edge of the property abuts heavy vegetation, which conceals a small garden.




Figure 1. View from entry drive to main building.   Figure 2. View toward Los Gatos- Saratoga Road.




Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                           P.2
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                                     December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


Main Building

This two-story restaurant building is irregular in plan. It is of wood frame construction with stucco
cladding and a composition shingle gable and hipped roof. Windows are a combination of fixed and
operable single and multi-lite. Doors are generally wood, some with panels, and some with diamond pane
lites. The small Nippon Mura era building stands centered on the north side of the large main building,
the two-story cross gable craftsman style restaurant building to the west of it, and a covered wedding
patio to the east. The wood trellis sheltering the patio has been removed. The entire south side of the
building has been concealed by a rambling one-story addition. A covered brick patio extends to the
north.

Interior
The first floor of the main building has been entirely gutted down to the stud walls. The rear additions
contain an operational kitchen and retain their finishes but have no historic fabric. The second floor,
which is divided into several private dining rooms, appears to have been entirely remodeled in the 1980s
and features non-contributing carpet, wall finishes, and light fixtures. Observation has shown no extant
historic fabric on the interior of the main building.

History and Character Defining Features
The main building was originally a stand-alone dining hall when Nippon Mura was established and was
transformed into the two-story craftsman style building by 1911. Character defining features include wide
eaves with shaped rafter tails, heavy-dash stucco cladding, half-timbering, original wood windows, and
quatrefoil attic vents.




Figure 3. Original portion of main building.   Figure 4. Main building with enclosed porches and porte cochere.




Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                                  P.3
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                                 December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT




Figure 5. Rear additions at main building.         Figure 6. Rear view of main building with attached motel.




Conference Center

This one story conference center is roughly T-shaped in plan, with the northeast crook filled in. It is of
wood frame construction with T1-11 cladding and a composition shingle cross gable and hipped roof.
Windows are mostly aluminum sliders, and doors are wood with arched lites, located at entries on the
west, east, and north elevations. Paved patios occur at the west and east sides, with a wooden porch to
the north.

History and Character Defining Features
The building appears to encapsulate an early Nippon Mura cottage, and the extant historic fabric
includes wide board angled soffits, flat-board fascia, and a bead board soffit where the side porch would
have been. Additions appear on the front and east sides and the recessed side porch has been enclosed.
Currently under construction, some of the exterior cladding has been removed, and the interior has been
completely gutted. The above mentioned character defining features still remain.




Figure 7. Conference center under construction.    Figure 8. Office building.




Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                              P.4
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                                 December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT




Office Building

This one story office building is rectangular in plan. It is of wood frame construction with T1-11 cladding
and a composition shingle gable roof running the length of the building with cross gables at each end. A
shed roof addition lines the east side of the building. Windows are mostly aluminum sliders and doors are
six-panel, some recessed in an opening centered on the west elevation.

History and Character Defining Features
This building may conceal remnants of a Nippon Mura cottage, but it has been reclad and reconfigured
so as not to possess any character defining features from the era.

Motel Buildings

The one story motel buildings are rectangular in plan, organized around a central courtyard. They are of
wood frame ranch style construction with vertical wood siding and concrete shingle gable roofs running
the length of the buildings with a cross gable above the motel lobby. Extending from the west side of the
main building, the motel rooms are aligned with small private patios at the north, facing the courtyard.
The building turns to the north and then takes another slight turn to the northeast, bordering the
courtyard to the west. Two detached buildings define the courtyard at the east.

History and Character Defining Features
Typical of Ranch-style or Second Bay Tradition, the motel buildings feature board and batten siding,
moderately pitched roofs, private screened patios to facilitate a connection between indoor and outdoor
spaces, and courtyard layout.



REGULATORY FRAMEWORK

The 2008 Report reviewed by Carey & Co. use the following criteria for establishing significance of the
property as well as the definitions of integrity that follow. Carey & Co. has used the same framework for
reviewing the Archives & Architecture evaluation of the property.

National Register of Historic Places

National Register Bulletin Number 15, How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation, describes
the Criteria for Evaluation as being composed of two factors. First, the property must be "associated with
                                1
an important historic context." The National Register identifies four possible context types, of which at



1
 How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation, National Register Bulletin, no. 15 (Washington, D.C.:
United States Department of the Interior, 1997): 3.



Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                                P.5
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                                December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


least one must be applicable at the national, state, or local level. As listed under Section 8, "Statement of
Significance," of the National Register of Historic Places Registration Form, these are:

        "A. Property is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad
        patterns of our history.

        "B. Property is associated with the lives of persons significant in our past.

        "C. Property embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction
        or represents the work of a master, or possesses high artistic values, or represents a significant and
        distinguishable entity whose components lack individual distinction.

                                                                                                              2
        "D. Property has yielded, or is likely to yield, information important to prehistory or history."

Second, for a property to qualify under the National Register's Criteria for Evaluation, it must also retain
                                                                                3
"historic integrity of those features necessary to convey its significance." While a property's significance
relates to its role within a specific historic context, its integrity refers to "a property's physical features
                                           4
and how they relate to its significance."

California Register of Historical Resources

The California Register of Historical Resources (CRHR) is the authoritative inventory of significant
architectural and archeological resources in the state of California. The California Office of Historic
Preservation's Technical Assistance Series #6, California Register and National Register: A Comparison,
outlines the differences between the federal and state processes. The context types to be used when
establishing the significance of a property for listing on the California Register are very similar, with
emphasis on local and state significance. They are:

        "1. It is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of
             local or regional history, or the cultural heritage of California or the United States; or

        "2. It is associated with the lives of persons important to local, California, or national history; or

        "3. It embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction or
             represents the work of a master, or possesses high artistic values; or




2
  How to Complete the National Register Registration Form, National Register Bulletin, no. 16A (Washington, D.C.:
United States Department of the Interior, 1997): 75.
3
  How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation, 3.
4
  How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation, 44.


Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                                 P.6
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                                     December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


         "4. It has yielded, or is likely to yield, information important to prehistory or history of the local
                                                 5
              area, California, or the nation."

Like the NRHP, evaluation for eligibility for the California Register requires an establishment of historic
significance before integrity is considered. California's integrity threshold is slightly lower than the
federal level. As a result, some resources that are historically significant but do not meet NRHP integrity
                                                                   6
standards may be eligible for listing on the California Register.

California's list of special considerations is shorter and more lenient than the NRHP. It includes some
allowances for moved buildings, structures, or objects, as well as lower requirements for proving the
significance of resources that are less than 50 years old and a more elaborate discussion of the eligibility
                              7
of reconstructed buildings.

In addition to separate evaluations for eligibility to the California Register, the state will automatically
list resources if they are listed or determined eligible for the NRHP through a complete evaluation
         8
process.

Integrity

The evaluation of historic significance under CRHR is a two-step process. First, the historic significance
of the property must be established. If the property appears to possess historic significance, then a
determination of its physical integrity is conducted, that is verification of "the authenticity of an
historical resource's period of significance as evidenced by the survival of characteristics that existed
                                               9
during the resource's period of significance."

The California Register uses seven components of integrity to determine if a property retains sufficient
physical characteristics to convey its historic significance. They are:

    1. Location is the place where the historic property was constructed or the place where the historic
       event occurred.

    2. Design is the combination of elements that create the form, plan, space, structure, and style of a
       property.



5
  California Register and National Register: A Comparison, California Office of Historic Preservation Technical
Assistance Series, no. 6 (Sacramento, CA: California Department of Parks and Recreation, 2001), 1.
6
  California Register and National Register: A Comparison, 1.
7
  California Register and National Register: A Comparison, 2.
8
  All State Historical Landmarks from number 770 onward are also automatically listed on the California Register.
[California Office of Historic Preservation, California Register of Historical Resources: The Listing Process, Technical
Assistance Series 5, (Sacramento: California Department of Parks and Recreation, n. d.): 1.
9
  How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation, National Register Bulletin, no. 15 (Washington, D.C.:
United States Department of the Interior, 1997): 3.


Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                                     P.7
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                               December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


       3. Setting is the physical environment of a historic property.

       4. Materials are the physical elements that were combined or deposited during a particular period of
          time and in a particular pattern or configuration to form a historic property.

       5. Workmanship is the physical evidence of the crafts of a particular culture or people during any
          given period in history or prehistory.

       6. Feeling is a property's expression of the aesthetic or historic sense of a particular period of time.

       7. Association is the direct link between an important historic event or person and a historic
                    10
          property.

Since integrity is based on a property's significance within a specific historic context, an evaluation of a
property's integrity can only occur after historic significance has been established.

County of Santa Clara Historic Resource Inventory

Properties which meet the following criteria may be designated as Landmarks under the County of Santa
Clara General Plan Historic Preservation Ordinance:

                 A. Fifty years or older. If less than 50 years old, sufficient time must have passed to obtain a
                    scholarly perspective on the events or individuals associated with the historic resource
                    and/or the historic resource is a distinctive or important example of its type or style; and

                 B. Retains historic integrity. If a historic resource was moved to prevent demolition at its
                    former location, it may still be considered eligible if the new location is compatible with
                    the original character of the property; and

                 C. Meets one or more of the following criteria of significance:
                    1. Associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad
                       patterns of local or regional history, or the cultural heritage of California or United
                       States;
                    2. Associated with the lives of person important to local, California or national history;
                    3. Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, region, or method of
                       construction, or represents the work of a master or possesses high artistic values; or
                    4. Yielded or has the potential to yield information important to the pre-history or
                       history of the local area, California, or the nation.




10
     How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation, 44-45.



Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                             P.8
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                         December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


City of Monte Sereno

The City of Monte Sereno Historic Preservation Ordinance establishes a scoring system for properties as
follows, with a total possible score of 90 and no specified minimum score:

            A. Architecture. To be considered an architecturally significant feature as a basis for
               inclusion in the historical inventory, the feature shall include any one or more of the
               following (possible aggregate maximum score of sixty):
               1. Be significant as an example of a particular architectural style, type or convention.
                    (score 1-10)
               2. Be significant as an example of a particular material used or method of construction
                    (score 1-10)
               3. Be constructed fifty (50) years ago (score 1); or be constructed prior to 1930 (score
                    3); or, be constructed prior to 1917 (score 5); or be constructed prior to 1900 (score
                    7).
               4. Be designed or built by an architect or builder who has made a significant
                    contribution to the community, state, or nation. (score 1-10)
               5. Have an architectural quality of composition, detailing, and ornament measured, in
                    part in originality, quality as urban architecture, craftsmanship and uniqueness.
                    (score 1-10)
               6. Contributes to or has a setting and/or landscaping which contributes to the
                    continuity or character of a street, neighborhood, or area in which it is situated
                    (score 1-10)

            B. History. To be considered an historically significant feature and a community heritage
               resource as a basis for inclusion in the historical inventory, the feature shall (possible
               aggregate maximum score of thirty (30)):
               1. Be associated with the life or activities of a person, group, organization, association
                   or institution that has made a significant contribution to the City, state, or nation.
                   (score 1-10)
               2. Be associated with an event that has made a significant contribution to the City,
                   state, or nation. (score 1-10)
               3. Be associated with, and effectively illustrative of broad patterns of cultural, social,
                   political, economic, or industrial history of the development of the City. (score 1-
                   10)



REVIEW OF EXISTING EVALUATION

Historic Context

The Historical and Architectural Evaluation by Archives and Architecture contains a thorough history
of the property including its multiple owners and changes of use. First established in 1901as Nippon



Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                       P.9
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                          December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


Mura, a Japanese-inspired resort, it was designed by Charles Sawyer and built by Herbert Hooper for
Theodore J. and Lucy B. Morris. Wisteria Villa was the first building constructed and was demolished in
the early 1940s, and the dining hall, still extant within the large main building onsite, was built in 1903.
The resort was expanded shortly thereafter and operated until the late 1920s. The property functioned as
a lodge under owner A.R. Fitzpatrick and later Bill Lewis. Mark and Emilio Velos purchased the property
in 1942 and altered the upper dining room of the main building. In the early 1960s, they established the
motor hotel onsite and hired architects Higgins and Root to design it. The Velos sold the restaurant
portion of the property to Charles Morosin in 1962, and later the motel portion as well. He owned it
until 2006.




Figure 9. Original Nippon Mura building, Wisteria Villa, 1920. (Images of Long Ago)



In their existing report, Archives and Architecture mentions that T.J. Morris took advantage of the
establishment of the San Jose-Los Gatos Interurban Railway and constructed a depot at Nippon Mura
sometime after 1904. The train operated until 1933. The property's association with an electric
interurban railway is potentially an important one which seems to have been only briefly mentioned in
the existing report. Although this association might also tie in with the pattern of recreation in the area
which has been examined, a deeper understanding of Nippon Mura's link with the San Jose-Los Gatos
Interurban Railway may offer further insight into the significance of this site. Additionally, no mention
is made in the existing report about whether the depot structure, or any trace of it, still exists on the
subject property. A more thorough discussion of the San Jose-Los Gatos Interurban Railway follows:



Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                       P.10
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                                   December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


The interurban electric railway was developed as an alternative means of transportation to steam
powered engines and cable cars. First used only for city street running, electric railway lines began to
extend beyond limits of animal and cable car capabilities, connecting neighborhoods, and even cities
and towns. The first recognized interurban line, began in 1893, was the Oregon Power and Railroad
                                                                  11
Company which ran trains between Oregon City and Portland. Interurban services would appear in the
Bay Area almost ten years later.

James Rea, an associate of the Electric Improvement Company of San Jose and a politician, saw the
potential of the interbank as a supplement to the service offered by the Southern Pacific, offering short
hauls and less-than- carload freight as well as short passenger runs. He rallied O.A. Hale, a department
store tycoon, and W.S. Granger, and the three of them set out to construct an interurban line to run the
18 miles from San Jose to Los Gatos.

To avoid the cost of private rights-of-way, Rea and Granger chose to construct the line along county
roads. Construction began in January 1903, but was halted a month later due to a lack of funds. In June
of 1903, Rea got Germania Trust Company of St. Louis, Missouri, to accept $500,000 worth of bonds,
and construction resumed.

The first run from San Jose via Saratoga to Los Gatos was completed in March 1904, and the road was
soon acquired by Southern Pacific interests. A direct route from Campbell to Los Gatos was opened in
November of the same year. The line had big plans for expansion, including 204 miles of electric railway
from San Francisco to San Jose through Palo Alto, Redwood City, and San Mateo. However, when the
Colorado River flooded in 1905, required repairs to its Los Angeles-Yuma line imposed financial strain
on Southern Pacific, and the plans for expansion of the Peninsular were thwarted. Rails intended for the
Peninsular extension were instead used to build new lines to get rock trains to crucial points along the
river.

Nonetheless, in 1910 a route from San Jose to Palo Alto opened, and in 1914, the steam line from
Monte Vista to Congress Junction was electrified, allowing direct service to Los Gatos from Palo Alto.
By 1919, operating deficits began for the Peninsular Interurban, followed by 16 continuous years of
                                                    12
operating deficits, which reached $189,000 in 1927. Abandonment of some tracks began in 1929, with
the rest of them out of service by 1933.




11
     Trimble, Paul C. Interurban Railways of the Bay Area, Valley Publishers, 1977, 2.
12
     Hilton, George and John F. Due. The Electric Interurban Railways in America, Stanford University Press, 1960, 404.



Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                                 P.11
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                         December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT




Figure 10. Map of San Jose-Los Gatos Interurban Railway, 1904.

Several factors led to the downfall of the Peninsular Interurban, which turned out to be one of the least
                               13
successful lines in California. First, a subsidiary of Southern Pacific, the line suffered from absentee
               14
management. Also, the drain on resources caused by the Colorado River flooding made connection to
San Francisco lines, and potentially more customers, impossible. Finally, the rise in popularity of the
automobile led to the line's downfall. Paved roads were needed which could handle the ever increasing
speed of the auto, and with lines along county roads, the Peninsular Interurban was told to move its
tracks so the streets could be widened. However, the same people who were demanding wider roads were
                                                                                                   15
also no longer paying customers of the railway, and tracks were abandoned rather than moved.

With the dissolution of the Peninsular Interurban service, most physical traces of the line disappeared
                                                                         16
relatively quickly as a result of the South Bay's huge population growth. However, some survivors


13
   Hilton and Due, The Electric Interurban Railways in America, 404.
14
   Hilton and Due, The Electric Interurban Railways in America, 404.
15
   Trimble, Interurban Railways of the Bay Area, 86.
16
   McCaleb, Charles S. Tracks, Tires, and Wires, Interurban Press, 1981, 103.


Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                     P.12
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                         December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


remain, including a transformer station in Palo Alto, a Peninsular station in Los Altos, which was used as
a restaurant and is now a financial institution, and the San Carlos Street carbarn in San Jose, used for
buses. Remnants exist near the La Hacienda site as well, including a pair of rails protruding from the
pavement of Austin Way at Quito Road near Highway 9. The former Nippon Mura station was
transported from the opposite end of Austin Way to the front yard of Willys Peck, a local journalist,
                                                              17
history buff, and railroad aficionado, who lives in Saratoga.


Evaluation of Significance

Carey & Co. generally agrees with the findings contained in the 2008 La Hacienda evaluation. However,
the existing Historical and Architectural Evaluation completed by Archives and Architecture considers
integrity before significance, contradicting the process laid out in the National Register Bulletin 15
which states: "Integrity is based on significance: why, where, and when a property is important. Only
                                                                                    18
after significance is fully established can you proceed to the issue of integrity."

The report completed by Archives and Architecture evaluates the La Hacienda property for significance
with respect to the criteria for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places and the California
Register of Historical Resources. In addition, the report considers the criteria for the Santa Clara County
Heritage Inventory, and the City of Monte Sereno historical inventory scoring system. Archives and
Architecture's findings can be summarized as follows, with additional comments by Carey & Co.:



CRITERION A

Significance within Historic Context ­ Patterns of Community Development

Nippon Mura
The property was originally known as Nippon Mura resort, a complex of a dozen buildings on about 30
acres. The subject property appears significant within the local industry of health resorts in the Santa
Cruz Mountains which evolved during the early 20th century. However, a loss of integrity of the
property means that its association with this use is no longer evident.

Restaurant and Roadside Inn
During the 1940s, the property's use as a restaurant was further developed with the addition of kitchen
spaces to the main building, and in the early 1960s the motel was constructed onsite. The report states
that "A deep understanding of the social patterns represented by this late-twentieth-century roadside inn
cannot yet be fully realized, as adequate time has not passed to put the property's possible significance
into a broader historical context."



17
     McCaleb, Tracks, Tires, and Wires, 103.
18
     How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation, 45.


Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                      P.13
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                                  December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


Significance Related to Events

There are no known events associated with the site.

Carey & Co. Comments:
Carey & Co. concurs that the property is significant as a health resort which was an early part of a
                                                              th
region-wide industry and pattern of recreation in the early 20 century. However, this establishment of
significance should stand apart from an assessment of integrity, especially for a property whose history
includes many styles and additions. The existing report seems to evaluate significance and integrity
simultaneously, which makes less clear the character defining features that should be present for integrity
to be considered intact.

Carey & Co. also supports the findings that the property's use as La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn is too
recent to be evaluated in a broader historic context, and therefore cannot be the basis of the property's
significance. National Register Bulletin 15 states: "The National Register Criteria for Evaluation exclude
properties that achieved significance within the last fifty years unless they are of exceptional importance.
Fifty years is a general estimate of the time needed to develop historical perspective and to evaluate
                19
significance." While the restaurant was a local fixture for six decades, it cannot be considered
exceptionally significant for its use as a restaurant, nor does the property's use as a motel appear
exceptionally significant in the local community.

Carey & Co.'s research revealed no significant events associated with the site.

As noted above, the potential historic context related to patterns of transportation development has
been overlooked in the existing report. As a destination, Nippon Mura likely accounted for a fair portion
of the ridership on the Peninsula Interurban. However, it does not appear to have been a pivotal point in
the growth of the railway, nor was it a major hub.

A San Francisco Chronicle article features the garden of Willys Peck, the Saratoga man who is now in
possession of the original Nippon Mura depot, and calls out the "old streetcar shelter" as a feature in his
                                                                              20
front yard, which has "become a cozy retreat with colorful, plump pillows." Although the caption
associated with the photo of the shelter titles it "an old children's bus house," it is clear that the photo
does indeed feature the small station, or shelter, from Nippon Mura. The small three-sided wood
structure has horizontal wood siding with wooden lattice that creates a shallow arch on the open side.
Similar lattice is seen on some of Nippon Mura's buildings, including the extant remnants, in the gable
roof ends.

The structure itself recalls its original use as a passenger shelter or depot for the Peninsula Interurban.
However, because it has been moved about 2 miles northwest on Highway 9, its integrity of location and


19
     How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation, 41.
20
     Richter, Judy. "Cultivating Memories; Willys and Betty Peck." San Francisco Chronicle, 11 June 2008.


Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                              P.14
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                          December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


setting has been lost. In addition, the subject property, La Hacienda, has also lost its association with the
Peninsular Interurban railway, a short-lived but important piece of the history of transportation in Santa
Clara County.



CRITERION B

Significance Related to Historic Personages

Each owner of the subject property can be credited with some local notability. T.J. and Lucy Morris
conceived of the unique resort, while the Velos established a popular local restaurant. However, "their
significance is linked strongly to the social patterns embodied by their work, rather than by their
personal renown in the greater community." Therefore the property's association with these persons
cannot be considered significant to a degree that warrants listing in the National or California Registers.

Carey & Co. Comments:
Carey & Co. supports the finding that the property does not meet Criterion B for association with
significant persons, and our research has not indicated that those related to the La Hacienda site are
notable in the community beyond the subject property itself.



CRITERION C

Significance Related to Architectural Distinction

The original complex was composed of Japanese styled buildings, which were unique among other
buildings of the same style because it was used as a resort rather than as a showcase for Japanese culture.
However, this architectural distinction has been lost. In addition, little is known about Charles Sawyer's
work so significance in this context cannot be established.

During the property's tenure as La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn, it saw many building additions in a
variety of inconsistent styles.

The motel is a good example of Ranch style architecture designed by Higgins and Root, who may have a
significant body of work. However, the motel is not recognizable as a distinctive creation, nor is it
innovative for its time.

Carey & Co. Comment:
Carey & Co. agrees that the original Japanese styled building were unique and significant. However, this
style simply does not exist at the site and cannot be evaluated for significance or integrity. The motel
portion of the property is identified as internally homogeneous by Archives and Architecture, and Carey
& Co. concurs that its buildings still embody Ranch style, or Second Bay Tradition architecture, but are




Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                        P.15
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                          December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


not a notable example of this style. The motel complex also must be considered as part of the rest of the
property, and therefore loses some architectural distinction as one of many disparate additions.



CRITERION D

No discussion is included in the existing report.

Carey & Co. Comments:
The property does not appear to meet Criterion D for potential to yield information.

Santa Clara County Heritage Inventory
The Santa Clara County Heritage Inventory uses criteria based on the California Register Criteria, with
an emphasis on local significance. The above discussion shows that the property is potentially eligible for
listing under Criterion A for its association with local patterns of recreation.

City of Monte Sereno

Archives and Architecture's findings with respect to the City of Monte Sereno's Tally System is as
follows, with the given score contained in brackets. A separate score is used for the architecture of
Nippon Mura and for the architecture of La Hacienda, including the motel.

Architecture:

   1. Be significant as an example of a particular architectural style, type or convention. [Nippon Mura:
      1, La Hacienda: 5]
   2. Be significant as an example of a particular material used or method of construction [Nippon
      Mura: 1, La Hacienda: 1]
   3. Be constructed fifty (50) years ago; or be constructed prior to 1930; or, be constructed prior to
      1917; or be constructed prior to 1900. [Nippon Mura: 5, La Hacienda: 1]
   4. Be designed or built by an architect or builder who has made a significant contribution to the
      community, state, or nation. [Nippon Mura: 1, La Hacienda: 3]
   5. Have an architectural quality of composition, detailing, and ornament measured, in part in
      originality, quality as urban architecture, craftsmanship and uniqueness. [Nippon Mura: 1, La
      Hacienda: 4]
   6. Contributes to or has a setting and/or landscaping which contributes to the continuity or
      character of a street, neighborhood, or area in which it is situated [Nippon Mura: 1, La Hacienda:
      1]

The point total for architectural significance for Nippon Mura is 10 and the point total for La Hacienda
is 15 out of a possible 60.

History:



Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                       P.16
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                            December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


   1. Be associated with the life or activities of a person, group, organization, association or institution
      that has made a significant contribution to the City, state, or nation. [1]
   2. Be associated with an event that has made a significant contribution to the City, state, or nation.
      [1]
   3. Be associated with, and effectively illustrative of broad patterns of cultural, social, political,
      economic, or industrial history of the development of the City. [2]

The point total for historic significance is 4 out of a possible 30.

Carey & Co. Comments:
Archives and Architecture's assessment using the Monte Sereno point system could have easily varied in
one direction or the other as it is difficult to determine a precise rating between 1 and 10 for many of the
listed categories of significance. However, the significance findings using other criteria, such as the
National and California Register, are supported by the low point total using the Tally System above, and
Carey & Co. therefore agrees with these findings, if not with the precise score for each category.



INTEGRITY

The following is a summary of the integrity findings contained in the 2008 report:

Integrity of location remains intact for portions of two original Nippon Mura buildings as well as fo the
motel buildings. However, the integrity of setting has been compromised with the removal of buildings
and site features once part of the Nippon Mura complex as well as the straightening of Los Gatos-
Saratoga Road which led to the loss of the small nearby community, Austin Corners. The original
designs of the Nippon Mura cottage buildings have been lost due to extensive additions and the
replacement of windows, doors, exterior cladding, and trim. The large Craftsman style building,
associated with both the resort and the La Hacienda restaurant retains some of its original design,
including its two story massing, although the porch and balcony elements have since been enclosed. The
rear has been engulfed in relatively recent additions. Limited detailing, including wide eaves with shaped
rafter tails, heavy-dash stucco finish, half-timbering, and attic vents still remain, but do not contribute to
a comprehensive design. Finally, the feeling and association with the Nippon Mura era has been lost.
Association with La Hacienda restaurant is not evident as the buildings were simply reused from their
previous function. However, the motel has total integrity and remains intact.

Both the California and National Registers indicate that significance must be established before integrity
is evaluated. The only significance established at the site based on the above evaluation is related to its
association with patterns of local health resort recreation as well as to the Japanese styled buildings of the
Nippon Mura resort. Therefore, the integrity of the original Nippon Mura buildings is in question. With
this in mind, the evaluation of integrity is clear.




Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                        P.17
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                           December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT


Location and Setting
The remaining buildings from the Nippon Mura resort include the main building, the conference center,
and potentially parts of the office building. These retain their original location. However, the original
resort consisted of a dozen buildings, the majority of which have been demolished, including the most
photographed resort building, Wisteria Villa. The removal of these resort buildings and of resort
amenities and Japanese inspired gardens has resulted in a loss of integrity of setting for the remaining
buildings.

Design, Materials and Workmanship
Since significance has been established under Criterion A for Nippon Mura's association with patterns of
recreation, we are concerned with both the remnant Japanese style and Craftsman style designs on site.
Although character defining features remain at the main building, including wide eaves with shaped
rafter tails, heavy-dash stucco, half-timbering, and quatrefoil attic vents, these features do not contribute
to a cohesive design on site and are further undermined by extensive additions. Limited historic features
remain at the eaves and gable ends of the conference center as well, but overall integrity of design and
materials have been compromised at this building, largely due to its additions and exterior recladding.
Integrity of design, materials, and workmanship are no longer intact at the property.

Feeling and Association
The property in its current state does not convey any association with its origin as the Nippon Mura
health resort. Extant portions of historic buildings are engulfed in additions and have suffered the
removal of historic materials and features.

The property does not possess sufficient integrity to be considered eligible for listing in the National or
California Registers, the County of Santa Clara Heritage Resource Inventory, or in the City of Monte
Sereno Inventory.



CONCLUSION

Carey & Co. supports the findings in Archives and Architecture's Historical and Architectural
Evaluation for La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn in Monte Sereno, California. Although the site is
significant as an early health resort established in 1901 as Nippon Mura, years of alterations and
additions have compromised its integrity to the point of losing all association with this original use and
with its original Japanese style architecture.

A potentially significant historic context was overlooked in the existing report: association with the
Interurban Railway and patterns of transportation. The property's original owner, T.J. Morris, established
a depot for the railway at Nippon Mura in 1904 to facilitate access to the resort. However, further
research has indicated that the Peninsular Interurban was very short lived as one of the least successful
lines in California, and that no remnants of the depot remain on site. Therefore, no significance can be
established with this association.



Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                        P.18
La Hacienda Restaurant and Inn                                                           December 12, 2012
Historic Resource Evaluation ­ Peer Review DRAFT




One issue requiring clarification in the report was the order of assessment of significance and integrity.
Regulatory framework clearly states that significance must be established before integrity is evaluated.
Archives and Architecture report appears to have reversed this order, and although the conclusion
remains the same, Carey & Co. has included a clarified assessment of integrity following the
establishment of significance under Criterion A.

The property does not appear eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or the
California Register of Historical Resources, nor is it eligible for the Santa Clara County Historic
Resource Inventory or the City of Monte Sereno Inventory.




REFERENCES

Archives and Architecture, Heritage Resource Partners, LLC, Historical and Architectural Evaluation: La
Hacienda Restaurant and Inn Site, 31 March 2008.

California Department of Parks and Recreation, California Register and National Register: A Comparison,
California Office of Historic Preservation Technical Assistance Series, no. 6, Sacramento, CA: 2001.

Hilton, George and John F. Due. The Electric Interurban Railways in America, Stanford University Press,
1960.

McCaleb, Charles S. Tracks, Tires, and Wires, Interurban Press, 1981.

Richter, Judy. "Cultivating Memories; Willys and Betty Peck." San Francisco Chronicle, 11 June 2008.

Trimble, Paul C. Interurban Railways of the Bay Area, Valley Publishers, 1977.

United States Department of the Interior, How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation,
National Register Bulletin, no. 15, Washington, DC: 1997.

United States Department of the Interior, How to Complete the National Register Registration Form,
National Register Bulletin, no. 16A, Washington, DC: 1997.




Carey & Co., Inc.                                                                                       P.19
             APPENDIX D



URBEMIS A IR Q UALITY M ODELING R ESULTS
 P R O P O S E D M U L T I -F A M I L Y R E S I D E N T I A L
L A N D U S E D E S I G N A T I O N URBEMIS R U N S




               This document was produced on recycled paper.
Page: 1
5/7/2012 3:45:46 PM

                                                              Urbemis 2007 Version 9.2.4

                                                  Combined Annual Emissions Reports (Tons/Year)
File Name:
Project Name: Monte Sereno GPA
Project Location: Bay Area Air District
On-Road Vehicle Emissions Based on: Version : Emfac2007 V2.3 Nov 1 2006
Off-Road Vehicle Emissions Based on: OFFROAD2007

Summary Report:

CONSTRUCTION EMISSION ESTIMATES

                                          ROG          NOx          CO      SO2      PM10 Dust PM10 Exhaust     PM10    PM2.5 Dust     PM2.5    PM2.5    CO2
                                                                                                                                      Exhaust
2013 TOTALS (tons/year unmitigated)        0.69        1.42         1.15    0.00           0.35        0.09      0.43         0.07       0.08    0.15   185.67


AREA SOURCE EMISSION ESTIMATES

                                                    ROG          NOx           CO       SO2        PM10       PM2.5            CO2

TOTALS (tons/year, unmitigated)                      0.56        0.06         0.90      0.00        0.12       0.11           80.25


OPERATIONAL (VEHICLE) EMISSION ESTIMATES

                                                    ROG          NOx           CO       SO2        PM10       PM2.5            CO2

TOTALS (tons/year, unmitigated)                      0.35        0.44         4.07      0.00        0.75       0.14          408.47


SUM OF AREA SOURCE AND OPERATIONAL EMISSION ESTIMATES

                                                    ROG          NOx           CO       SO2        PM10       PM2.5            CO2

TOTALS (tons/year, unmitigated)                      0.91        0.50         4.97      0.00        0.87       0.25          488.72


Construction Unmitigated Detail Report:
Page: 2
5/7/2012 3:45:46 PM
CONSTRUCTION EMISSION ESTIMATES Annual Tons Per Year, Unmitigated


                                      ROG          NOx              CO   SO2    PM10 Dust   PM10 Exhaust   PM10    PM2.5 Dust   PM2.5 Exhaust   PM2.5    CO2

2013                                   0.69         1.42        1.15     0.00        0.35          0.09     0.43         0.07           0.08     0.15   185.67

 Demolition 01/01/2013-                0.01         0.07        0.06     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     8.43
 01/29/2013
       Fugitive Dust                   0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     0.00

       Demo Off Road Diesel            0.01         0.07        0.05     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     7.35

       Demo On Road Diesel             0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     0.00

       Demo Worker Trips               0.00         0.00        0.01     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     1.07

 Fine Grading 01/29/2013-              0.04         0.32        0.19     0.00        0.34          0.02     0.36         0.07           0.01     0.09    36.42
 03/12/2013
       Fine Grading Dust               0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.34          0.00     0.34         0.07           0.00     0.07     0.00

       Fine Grading Off Road Diesel    0.04         0.32        0.17     0.00        0.00          0.02     0.02         0.00           0.01     0.01    34.83

       Fine Grading On Road Diesel     0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     0.00

       Fine Grading Worker Trips       0.00         0.00        0.01     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     1.58

 Asphalt 03/12/2013-03/26/2013         0.01         0.08        0.06     0.00        0.00          0.01     0.01         0.00           0.01     0.01     8.78

       Paving Off-Gas                  0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     0.00

       Paving Off Road Diesel          0.01         0.07        0.05     0.00        0.00          0.01     0.01         0.00           0.01     0.01     7.00

       Paving On Road Diesel           0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     0.66

       Paving Worker Trips             0.00         0.00        0.01     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     1.12

 Building 03/26/2013-09/24/2013        0.20         0.95        0.85     0.00        0.00          0.06     0.06         0.00           0.06     0.06   131.53

       Building Off Road Diesel        0.19         0.91        0.67     0.00        0.00          0.06     0.06         0.00           0.06     0.06   106.19

       Building Vendor Trips           0.00         0.03        0.03     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     8.49

       Building Worker Trips           0.00         0.01        0.15     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00    16.85
Page: 3
5/7/2012 3:45:46 PM
  Coating 09/25/2013-10/23/2013                 0.43            0.00            0.00       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.51

     Architectural Coating                      0.43            0.00            0.00       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00

     Coating Worker Trips                       0.00            0.00            0.00       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.51


                                                                  Phase Assumptions

Phase: Demolition 1/1/2013 - 1/29/2013 - Demo of hotel
Building Volume Total (cubic feet): 0
Building Volume Daily (cubic feet): 0
On Road Truck Travel (VMT): 0
Off-Road Equipment:
1 Concrete/Industrial Saws (10 hp) operating at a 0.73 load factor for 8 hours per day
1 Rubber Tired Dozers (357 hp) operating at a 0.59 load factor for 1 hours per day
2 Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes (108 hp) operating at a 0.55 load factor for 6 hours per day


Phase: Fine Grading 1/29/2013 - 3/12/2013 - Fine grading
Total Acres Disturbed: 4.45
Maximum Daily Acreage Disturbed: 1.11
Fugitive Dust Level of Detail: Default
20 lbs per acre-day
On Road Truck Travel (VMT): 0
Off-Road Equipment:
1 Graders (174 hp) operating at a 0.61 load factor for 6 hours per day
1 Rubber Tired Dozers (357 hp) operating at a 0.59 load factor for 6 hours per day
1 Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes (108 hp) operating at a 0.55 load factor for 7 hours per day
1 Water Trucks (189 hp) operating at a 0.5 load factor for 8 hours per day


Phase: Paving 3/12/2013 - 3/26/2013 - paving
Acres to be Paved: 1.11
Off-Road Equipment:
Page: 4
5/7/2012 3:45:46 PM
4 Cement and Mortar Mixers (10 hp) operating at a 0.56 load factor for 6 hours per day
1 Pavers (100 hp) operating at a 0.62 load factor for 7 hours per day
1 Paving Equipment (104 hp) operating at a 0.53 load factor for 8 hours per day
1 Rollers (95 hp) operating at a 0.56 load factor for 7 hours per day
1 Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes (108 hp) operating at a 0.55 load factor for 7 hours per day


Phase: Building Construction 3/26/2013 - 9/24/2013 - construciton
Off-Road Equipment:
1 Cranes (399 hp) operating at a 0.43 load factor for 6 hours per day
2 Forklifts (145 hp) operating at a 0.3 load factor for 6 hours per day
1 Generator Sets (49 hp) operating at a 0.74 load factor for 8 hours per day
1 Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes (108 hp) operating at a 0.55 load factor for 8 hours per day
3 Welders (45 hp) operating at a 0.45 load factor for 8 hours per day


Phase: Architectural Coating 9/25/2013 - 10/23/2013 - coating
Rule: Residential Interior Coatings begins 1/1/2005 ends 12/31/2040 specifies a VOC of 250
Rule: Residential Exterior Coatings begins 1/1/2005 ends 12/31/2040 specifies a VOC of 250
Rule: Nonresidential Interior Coatings begins 1/1/2005 ends 12/31/2040 specifies a VOC of 250
Rule: Nonresidential Exterior Coatings begins 1/1/2005 ends 12/31/2040 specifies a VOC of 250
Page: 5
5/7/2012 3:45:46 PM
Area Source Unmitigated Detail Report:

AREA SOURCE EMISSION ESTIMATES Annual Tons Per Year, Unmitigated

               Source                             ROG              NOx               CO     SO2    PM10    PM2.5    CO2

Natural Gas                                       0.00             0.05             0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    61.50

Hearth                                            0.20             0.01             0.74    0.00    0.12    0.11    18.50

Landscape                                         0.01             0.00             0.14    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.25

Consumer Products                                 0.31

Architectural Coatings                            0.04

TOTALS (tons/year, unmitigated)                   0.56             0.06             0.90    0.00    0.12    0.11    80.25




                                                          Area Source Changes to Defaults


Operational Unmitigated Detail Report:

OPERATIONAL EMISSION ESTIMATES Annual Tons Per Year, Unmitigated

               Source                             ROG              NOX               CO     SO2    PM10    PM25     CO2

Apartments low rise                               0.35             0.44             4.07    0.00    0.75    0.14   408.47

TOTALS (tons/year, unmitigated)                   0.35             0.44             4.07    0.00    0.75    0.14   408.47



Operational Settings:


Does not include correction for passby trips

Does not include double counting adjustment for internal trips

Analysis Year: 2013 Season: Annual

Emfac: Version : Emfac2007 V2.3 Nov 1 2006
Page: 6
5/7/2012 3:45:46 PM
                                                      Summary of Land Uses

Land Use Type                                     Acreage      Trip Rate        Unit Type          No. Units         Total Trips         Total VMT

Apartments low rise                                  4.45            8.04 dwelling units              35.00             281.40            2,405.89

                                                                                                                        281.40            2,405.89

                                                            Vehicle Fleet Mix

Vehicle Type                                        Percent Type                 Non-Catalyst                        Catalyst                   Diesel

Light Auto                                                  53.7                             0.6                        99.2                          0.2

Light Truck < 3750 lbs                                      12.8                             0.8                        96.9                          2.3

Light Truck 3751-5750 lbs                                   19.9                             0.5                        99.5                          0.0

Med Truck 5751-8500 lbs                                      6.6                             0.0                       100.0                          0.0

Lite-Heavy Truck 8501-10,000 lbs                             0.9                             0.0                        77.8                         22.2

Lite-Heavy Truck 10,001-14,000 lbs                           0.6                             0.0                        50.0                         50.0

Med-Heavy Truck 14,001-33,000 lbs                            1.0                             0.0                        20.0                         80.0

Heavy-Heavy Truck 33,001-60,000 lbs                          0.4                             0.0                          0.0                    100.0

Other Bus                                                    0.1                             0.0                          0.0                    100.0

Urban Bus                                                    0.1                             0.0                          0.0                    100.0

Motorcycle                                                   3.2                            56.2                        43.8                          0.0

School Bus                                                   0.1                             0.0                          0.0                    100.0

Motor Home                                                   0.6                             0.0                        83.3                         16.7

                                                            Travel Conditions

                                                     Residential                                                      Commercial

                                      Home-Work         Home-Shop           Home-Other                  Commute            Non-Work           Customer

Urban Trip Length (miles)                  10.8                    7.3                7.5                      9.5                 7.4                7.4
Page: 7
5/7/2012 3:45:46 PM
                                                          Travel Conditions

                                                    Residential                                 Commercial

                                        Home-Work      Home-Shop         Home-Other   Commute       Non-Work       Customer

Rural Trip Length (miles)                    16.8                 7.1           7.9      14.7                6.6        6.6

Trip speeds (mph)                            35.0             35.0             35.0      35.0            35.0          35.0

% of Trips - Residential                     32.9             18.0             49.1



% of Trips - Commercial (by land use)
 E X I S T I N G S I N G L E -F A M I L Y R E S I D E N T I A L
L A N D U S E D E S I G N A T I O N URBEMIS R U N S




                This document was produced on recycled paper.
Page: 1
5/17/2012 12:45:04 PM

                                                              Urbemis 2007 Version 9.2.4

                                                  Combined Annual Emissions Reports (Tons/Year)
File Name:
Project Name: Monte Sereno Existing Single Family
Project Location: Bay Area Air District
On-Road Vehicle Emissions Based on: Version : Emfac2007 V2.3 Nov 1 2006
Off-Road Vehicle Emissions Based on: OFFROAD2007

Summary Report:

CONSTRUCTION EMISSION ESTIMATES

                                          ROG          NOx          CO      SO2      PM10 Dust PM10 Exhaust     PM10    PM2.5 Dust     PM2.5    PM2.5    CO2
                                                                                                                                      Exhaust
2013 TOTALS (tons/year unmitigated)        0.36        1.38         1.01    0.00           0.34        0.09      0.43         0.07       0.08    0.15   164.76


AREA SOURCE EMISSION ESTIMATES

                                                    ROG          NOx           CO       SO2        PM10       PM2.5            CO2

TOTALS (tons/year, unmitigated)                      0.07        0.01         0.10      0.00        0.01       0.01           13.83


OPERATIONAL (VEHICLE) EMISSION ESTIMATES

                                                    ROG          NOx           CO       SO2        PM10       PM2.5            CO2

TOTALS (tons/year, unmitigated)                      0.05        0.07         0.63      0.00        0.12       0.02           62.94


SUM OF AREA SOURCE AND OPERATIONAL EMISSION ESTIMATES

                                                    ROG          NOx           CO       SO2        PM10       PM2.5            CO2

TOTALS (tons/year, unmitigated)                      0.12        0.08         0.73      0.00        0.13       0.03           76.77


Construction Unmitigated Detail Report:
Page: 2
5/17/2012 12:45:04 PM
CONSTRUCTION EMISSION ESTIMATES Annual Tons Per Year, Unmitigated


                                      ROG          NOx              CO   SO2    PM10 Dust   PM10 Exhaust   PM10    PM2.5 Dust   PM2.5 Exhaust   PM2.5    CO2

2013                                   0.36         1.38        1.01     0.00        0.34          0.09     0.43         0.07           0.08     0.15   164.76

 Demolition 01/01/2013-                0.01         0.07        0.06     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     8.43
 01/29/2013
       Fugitive Dust                   0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     0.00

       Demo Off Road Diesel            0.01         0.07        0.05     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     7.35

       Demo On Road Diesel             0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     0.00

       Demo Worker Trips               0.00         0.00        0.01     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     1.07

 Fine Grading 01/29/2013-              0.04         0.32        0.19     0.00        0.34          0.02     0.36         0.07           0.01     0.09    36.42
 03/12/2013
       Fine Grading Dust               0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.34          0.00     0.34         0.07           0.00     0.07     0.00

       Fine Grading Off Road Diesel    0.04         0.32        0.17     0.00        0.00          0.02     0.02         0.00           0.01     0.01    34.83

       Fine Grading On Road Diesel     0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     0.00

       Fine Grading Worker Trips       0.00         0.00        0.01     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     1.58

 Asphalt 03/12/2013-03/26/2013         0.01         0.08        0.06     0.00        0.00          0.01     0.01         0.00           0.01     0.01     8.78

       Paving Off-Gas                  0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     0.00

       Paving Off Road Diesel          0.01         0.07        0.05     0.00        0.00          0.01     0.01         0.00           0.01     0.01     7.00

       Paving On Road Diesel           0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     0.66

       Paving Worker Trips             0.00         0.00        0.01     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     1.12

 Building 03/26/2013-09/24/2013        0.19         0.92        0.71     0.00        0.00          0.06     0.06         0.00           0.06     0.06   111.01

       Building Off Road Diesel        0.19         0.91        0.67     0.00        0.00          0.06     0.06         0.00           0.06     0.06   106.19

       Building Vendor Trips           0.00         0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     0.97

       Building Worker Trips           0.00         0.00        0.03     0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00         0.00           0.00     0.00     3.85
Page: 3
5/17/2012 12:45:04 PM
  Coating 09/25/2013-10/23/2013                 0.10            0.00            0.00       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.12

     Architectural Coating                      0.10            0.00            0.00       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00

     Coating Worker Trips                       0.00            0.00            0.00       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.12


                                                                  Phase Assumptions

Phase: Demolition 1/1/2013 - 1/29/2013 - Demolition
Building Volume Total (cubic feet): 0
Building Volume Daily (cubic feet): 0
On Road Truck Travel (VMT): 0
Off-Road Equipment:
1 Concrete/Industrial Saws (10 hp) operating at a 0.73 load factor for 8 hours per day
1 Rubber Tired Dozers (357 hp) operating at a 0.59 load factor for 1 hours per day
2 Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes (108 hp) operating at a 0.55 load factor for 6 hours per day


Phase: Fine Grading 1/29/2013 - 3/12/2013 - Fine grading
Total Acres Disturbed: 4.45
Maximum Daily Acreage Disturbed: 1.11
Fugitive Dust Level of Detail: Default
20 lbs per acre-day
On Road Truck Travel (VMT): 0
Off-Road Equipment:
1 Graders (174 hp) operating at a 0.61 load factor for 6 hours per day
1 Rubber Tired Dozers (357 hp) operating at a 0.59 load factor for 6 hours per day
1 Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes (108 hp) operating at a 0.55 load factor for 7 hours per day
1 Water Trucks (189 hp) operating at a 0.5 load factor for 8 hours per day


Phase: Paving 3/12/2013 - 3/26/2013 - Paving
Acres to be Paved: 1.11
Off-Road Equipment:
Page: 4
5/17/2012 12:45:04 PM
4 Cement and Mortar Mixers (10 hp) operating at a 0.56 load factor for 6 hours per day
1 Pavers (100 hp) operating at a 0.62 load factor for 7 hours per day
1 Paving Equipment (104 hp) operating at a 0.53 load factor for 8 hours per day
1 Rollers (95 hp) operating at a 0.56 load factor for 7 hours per day
1 Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes (108 hp) operating at a 0.55 load factor for 7 hours per day


Phase: Building Construction 3/26/2013 - 9/24/2013 - Construction
Off-Road Equipment:
1 Cranes (399 hp) operating at a 0.43 load factor for 6 hours per day
2 Forklifts (145 hp) operating at a 0.3 load factor for 6 hours per day
1 Generator Sets (49 hp) operating at a 0.74 load factor for 8 hours per day
1 Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes (108 hp) operating at a 0.55 load factor for 8 hours per day
3 Welders (45 hp) operating at a 0.45 load factor for 8 hours per day


Phase: Architectural Coating 9/25/2013 - 10/23/2013 - coat
Rule: Residential Interior Coatings begins 1/1/2005 ends 12/31/2040 specifies a VOC of 250
Rule: Residential Exterior Coatings begins 1/1/2005 ends 12/31/2040 specifies a VOC of 250
Rule: Nonresidential Interior Coatings begins 1/1/2005 ends 12/31/2040 specifies a VOC of 250
Rule: Nonresidential Exterior Coatings begins 1/1/2005 ends 12/31/2040 specifies a VOC of 250
Page: 5
5/17/2012 12:45:04 PM
Area Source Unmitigated Detail Report:

AREA SOURCE EMISSION ESTIMATES Annual Tons Per Year, Unmitigated

               Source                             ROG              NOx               CO     SO2    PM10    PM2.5   CO2

Natural Gas                                       0.00             0.01             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.68

Hearth                                            0.02             0.00             0.08    0.00    0.01    0.01    2.12

Landscape                                         0.00             0.00             0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03

Consumer Products                                 0.04

Architectural Coatings                            0.01

TOTALS (tons/year, unmitigated)                   0.07             0.01             0.10    0.00    0.01    0.01   13.83




                                                          Area Source Changes to Defaults


Operational Unmitigated Detail Report:

OPERATIONAL EMISSION ESTIMATES Annual Tons Per Year, Unmitigated

               Source                             ROG              NOX               CO     SO2    PM10    PM25    CO2

Single family housing                             0.05             0.07             0.63    0.00    0.12    0.02   62.94

TOTALS (tons/year, unmitigated)                   0.05             0.07             0.63    0.00    0.12    0.02   62.94



Operational Settings:


Does not include correction for passby trips

Does not include double counting adjustment for internal trips

Analysis Year: 2013 Season: Annual

Emfac: Version : Emfac2007 V2.3 Nov 1 2006
Page: 6
5/17/2012 12:45:04 PM
                                                      Summary of Land Uses

Land Use Type                                     Acreage      Trip Rate        Unit Type          No. Units         Total Trips         Total VMT

Single family housing                                4.45           10.84 dwelling units               4.00               43.36             370.72

                                                                                                                          43.36             370.72

                                                            Vehicle Fleet Mix

Vehicle Type                                        Percent Type                 Non-Catalyst                        Catalyst                   Diesel

Light Auto                                                  53.7                             0.6                        99.2                          0.2

Light Truck < 3750 lbs                                      12.8                             0.8                        96.9                          2.3

Light Truck 3751-5750 lbs                                   19.9                             0.5                        99.5                          0.0

Med Truck 5751-8500 lbs                                      6.6                             0.0                       100.0                          0.0

Lite-Heavy Truck 8501-10,000 lbs                             0.9                             0.0                        77.8                         22.2

Lite-Heavy Truck 10,001-14,000 lbs                           0.6                             0.0                        50.0                         50.0

Med-Heavy Truck 14,001-33,000 lbs                            1.0                             0.0                        20.0                         80.0

Heavy-Heavy Truck 33,001-60,000 lbs                          0.4                             0.0                          0.0                    100.0

Other Bus                                                    0.1                             0.0                          0.0                    100.0

Urban Bus                                                    0.1                             0.0                          0.0                    100.0

Motorcycle                                                   3.2                            56.2                        43.8                          0.0

School Bus                                                   0.1                             0.0                          0.0                    100.0

Motor Home                                                   0.6                             0.0                        83.3                         16.7

                                                            Travel Conditions

                                                     Residential                                                      Commercial

                                      Home-Work         Home-Shop           Home-Other                  Commute            Non-Work           Customer

Urban Trip Length (miles)                  10.8                    7.3                7.5                      9.5                 7.4                7.4
Page: 7
5/17/2012 12:45:04 PM
                                                          Travel Conditions

                                                    Residential                                 Commercial

                                        Home-Work      Home-Shop         Home-Other   Commute       Non-Work       Customer

Rural Trip Length (miles)                    16.8                 7.1           7.9      14.7                6.6        6.6

Trip speeds (mph)                            35.0             35.0             35.0      35.0            35.0          35.0

% of Trips - Residential                     32.9             18.0             49.1



% of Trips - Commercial (by land use)
                                                                         Traffic Data Service
                                                                                    Campbell, CA
                                                                                   (408) 377-2988
                                                                                    tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                          File Name              : 4AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                          Site Code              : 00000004
                                                                                                                                                          Start Date             : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                                          Page No                :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- Vehicles
                       SANTA CRUZ AVE               SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                  SANTA CRUZ AVE           SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                          Southbound                         Westbound                          Northbound                   Eastbound
 Start Time    Right   Thru   Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                                             Int. Total
  07:00 AM       24      23    15     0       62     12 137      22     1     172     19      18     57    0  94     14    62    18     0     94                                                 422
  07:15 AM       52      29    30     1     112      20 159      27     0     206     16      27     60    0 103       9   79    21     2   111                                                  532
  07:30 AM       62      25    20     1     108      30 157      30     2     219     22      34     68    2 126       8 105     27     7   147                                                  600
  07:45 AM       55      64    21     2     142      29 200      52     1     282     17      60     75    0 152       8   93    45     4   150                                                  726
       Total    193     141    86     4     424      91 653 131         4     879     74 139 260           2 475     39 339 111        13   502                                                 2280

  08:00 AM       35      41    28       0       104        35     199     45        3       282         25     58      70        0       153        10    117     58        3         188        727
  08:15 AM       41      39    25       0       105        35     170     46        3       254         21     48      56        0       125        20    107     56        5         188        672
  08:30 AM       33      46    41       0       120        39     177     52        1       269         10     41      41        0        92        11    106     61        4         182        663
  08:45 AM       65      47    41       3       156        25     219     49        5       298         12     39      42        0        93        14    107     59        0         180        727
       Total    174     173   135       3       485       134     765    192       12      1103         68    186     209        0       463        55    437    234       12         738       2789

 Grand Total    367     314   221       7       909       225    1418     323      16      1982        142     325    469        2       938        94     776    345      25       1240         5069
  Apprch %     40.4    34.5   24.3    0.8                11.4     71.5   16.3     0.8                 15.1    34.6      50     0.2                 7.6    62.6   27.8       2
     Total %    7.2     6.2    4.4    0.1      17.9       4.4       28     6.4    0.3       39.1        2.8     6.4    9.3       0      18.5       1.9    15.3     6.8    0.5        24.5




                       SANTA CRUZ AVE                      SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                              SANTA CRUZ AVE                        SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                          Southbound                             Westbound                                       Northbound                               Eastbound
  Start Time   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
   08:00 AM      35       41     28      0       104   35 199              45        3      282         25      58      70       0       153         10    117     58        3        188        727
   08:15 AM      41       39     25      0       105   35 170              46        3      254         21      48      56       0       125        20     107     56        5        188        672
   08:30 AM      33       46     41      0       120   39 177              52        1      269         10      41      41       0        92         11    106     61        4        182        663
   08:45 AM      65      47      41      3       156   25 219              49        5      298         12      39      42       0        93         14    107     59        0        180        727
 Total Volume   174 173 135              3       485 134 765              192       12     1103         68     186     209       0       463         55    437    234       12        738       2789
 % App. Total  35.9 35.7 27.8          0.6           12.1 69.4           17.4      1.1                14.7    40.2    45.1       0                  7.5   59.2   31.7      1.6
         PHF .669 .920 .823 .250                .777 .859 .873           .923    .600       .925      .680    .802    .746    .000      .757      .688    .934   .959    .600        .981        .959
                                                                         Traffic Data Service
                                                                                   Campbell, CA
                                                                                  (408) 377-2988
                                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                         File Name            : 3AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                         Site Code            : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                         Start Date           : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                                         Page No              :1
                                                                           Groups Printed- Vehicles
                           QUITO RD                       SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                                                                   SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                          Southbound                               Westbound                        Northbound                                             Eastbound
 Start Time    Right   Thru   Left Peds     App. Total   Right Thru  Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                      App. Total   Right Thru   Left Peds App. Total          Int. Total
  07:00 AM        1       0    27     0          28        42 136       0     0     178       0     0     0    0                            0        0   42     0     0       42              248
  07:15 AM        0       0    15     0          15        63 215       0     0     278       0     0     0    0                            0        0   39     0     0       39              332
  07:30 AM        2       0    22     0          24        50 255       0     0     305       0     0     0    0                            0        0   63     0     0       63              392
  07:45 AM        3       0    39     0          42        57 225       0     0     282       0     0     0    0                            0        0   75     0     0       75              399
       Total      6       0 103       0         109       212 831       0     0    1043       0     0     0    0                            0        0 219      0     0     219              1371

  08:00 AM        0       0    51       0        51        63     223      0       0      286          0       0        0       0           0       0     63      0       0         63        400
  08:15 AM        3       0    35       0        38        62     199      0       0      261          0       0        0       0           0       0     92      0       0         92        391
  08:30 AM        5       0    37       0        42        44     183      0       0      227          0       0        0       0           0       0     71      0       0         71        340
  08:45 AM        3       0    43       0        46        46     241      0       0      287          0       0        0       0           0       0     94      0       0         94        427
       Total     11       0   166       0       177       215     846      0       0     1061          0       0        0       0           0       0    320      0       0        320       1558

 Grand Total     17       0   269       0       286       427    1677       0      0     2104          0       0        0       0           0       0     539     0       0        539        2929
  Apprch %      5.9       0   94.1      0                20.3     79.7      0      0                   0       0        0       0                   0     100     0       0
     Total %    0.6       0    9.2      0        9.8     14.6     57.3      0      0      71.8         0       0        0       0           0       0    18.4     0       0       18.4




                          QUITO RD                         SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                                                                   SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                          Southbound                             Westbound                                         Northbound                            Eastbound
  Start Time   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
   07:30 AM        2       0     22      0        24   50 255               0      0      305          0       0        0       0           0       0      63      0      0         63        392
   07:45 AM        3       0     39      0        42   57 225               0      0      282          0       0        0       0           0       0      75      0      0         75        399
   08:00 AM        0       0     51      0        51   63 223               0      0      286          0       0        0       0           0       0      63      0      0         63        400
   08:15 AM        3       0     35      0        38   62 199               0      0      261          0       0        0       0           0       0      92      0      0         92        391
 Total Volume      8       0 147         0       155 232 902                0      0     1134          0       0        0       0           0       0     293      0      0        293       1582
 % App. Total   5.2        0 94.8        0           20.5 79.5              0      0                   0       0        0       0                   0     100      0      0
         PHF .667 .000 .721 .000                .760 .921 .884           .000   .000      .930      .000    .000     .000    .000      .000      .000    .796   .000   .000       .796        .989
                                                                                                                              Traffic Data Service
                                                                                                                                          Campbell, CA
                                                                                                                                         (408) 377-2988
                                                                                                                                          tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     File Name              : 2PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code              : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Start Date             : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Page No                :1
                                                                                                                                       Groups Printed- Vehicles
                               AUSTIN WY                                  SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                                        APARTMENT DRIVEWAY                                                      AUSTIN WY                             SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                               Southbound                                       Westbound                                                   Northeastbound                                                     Northbound                                  Eastbound
                                                                                                                                Hard      Bear                                                 Hard                                                          Bear
 Start Time     Right   Thru   Bear Left   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Hard Left   Peds   App. Total                       Bear Left   Hard Left   Peds   App. Total            Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right               Thru   Left    Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                               Right      Right                                                Right                                                         Right

 04:00 PM          3      7          0        2       0        12         3      64     11          0        0      78           0          2           0           0        0          2        0        6      2       0       0         8         1         2      145       3       0      151          251
 04:15 PM          4      5          0        0       0         9         0      70      3          0        0      73           2          0           0           0        0          2        0       13      5       0       0        18         1         0      151      10       0      162          264
 04:30 PM          6      3          0        0       0         9         0      75      5          1        0      81           1          0           0           0        0          1        0        7      4       0       0        11         0         0      169       5       0      174          276
 04:45 PM          3      3          0        0       0         6         0      67      8          3        0      78           0          0           1           0        0          1        0       12      2       0       0        14         4         0      185       4       0      193          292
      Total       16     18          0        2       0        36         3     276     27          4        0     310           3          2           1           0        0          6        0       38     13       0       0        51         6         2      650      22       0      680         1083

 05:00 PM          2       3         0        0       0         5         0      74     11          0        0      85           0          0           0           0        0          0        0        5       2      0       0         7         0         0      205       7       0      212          309
 05:15 PM          5       0         0        1       0         6         0      73     10          1        0      84           2          0           0           0        0          2        0        5       1      0       0         6         0         1      233       9       0      243          341
 05:30 PM          4       3         0        0       0         7         1      81     16          0        0      98           2          0           0           0        0          2        0        7       3      1       0        11         1         1      235       8       0      245          363
 05:45 PM          8       2         0        0       0        10         0      73      9          1        0      83           1          1           3           0        0          5        0       11       2      0       0        13         0         0      239       9       0      248          359
      Total       19       8         0        1       0        28         1     301     46          2        0     350           5          1           3           0        0          9        0       28       8      1       0        37         1         2      912      33       0      948         1372

 Grand Total      35     26          0        3       0        64         4     577     73          6        0     660           8          3           4           0        0        15         0       66     21       1       0        88         7         4 1562          55       0     1628          2455
   Apprch %     54.7    40.6         0      4.7       0                 0.6     87.4   11.1     0.9          0                53.3        20      26.7              0        0                   0       75    23.9    1.1       0                 0.4      0.2       95.9    3.4       0
    Total %      1.4     1.1         0      0.1       0       2.6       0.2     23.5      3     0.2          0    26.9         0.3       0.1       0.2              0        0       0.6         0      2.7     0.9      0       0       3.6       0.3      0.2       63.6    2.2       0     66.3




                               AUSTIN WY                                       SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                                    APARTMENT DRIVEWAY                                                     AUSTIN WY                                  SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                               Southbound                                            Westbound                                              Northeastbound                                                     Northbound                                       Eastbound
                                                                                                                                Hard      Bear                                                 Hard                                                          Bear
 Start Time     Right   Thru   Bear Left   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Hard Left   Peds   App. Total                       Bear Left   Hard Left   Peds   App. Total            Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right               Thru   Left    Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                               Right      Right                                                Right                                                         Right

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM       2      3       0     0      0      5  0   74                           11          0        0      85           0          0           0           0        0          0        0        5       2      0       0         7         0         0      205       7       0      212          309
  05:15 PM       5      0       0     1      0      6  0   73                           10          1        0      84           2          0           0           0        0          2        0        5       1      0       0         6         0         1      233       9       0      243          341
  05:30 PM       4      3       0     0      0      7  1   81                           16          0        0      98           2          0           0           0        0          2        0        7       3      1       0        11         1         1      235       8       0      245          363
  05:45 PM      8       2       0     0      0     10  0   73                            9          1        0      83           1          1           3           0        0          5        0       11       2      0       0        13         0         0      239       9       0      248          359
 Total Volume  19       8       0     1      0     28  1 301                            46          2        0     350           5          1           3           0        0          9        0       28       8      1       0        37         1         2      912      33       0      948         1372
 % App. Total   67.9    28.6      0          3.6      0                  0.3      86   13.1     0.6          0                55.6      11.1      33.3           0           0                   0     75.7    21.6     2.7      0                  0.1      0.2      96.2     3.5      0
        PHF     .594    .667   .000        .250    .000    .700        .250     .929   .719   .500        .000    .893        .625      .250      .250        .000        .000    .450        .000     .636    .667   .250    .000    .712        .250     .500       .954   .917    .000     .956          .945
                                                                                                                              Traffic Data Service
                                                                                                                                          Campbell, CA
                                                                                                                                         (408) 377-2988
                                                                                                                                          tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    File Name              : 2AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code              : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Start Date             : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page No                :1
                                                                                                                                       Groups Printed- Vehicles
                               AUSTIN WY                                 SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                                         APARTMENT DRIVEWAY                                                      AUSTIN WY                             SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                               Southbound                                      Westbound                                                    Northeastbound                                                     Northbound                                  Eastbound
                                                                                                                                Hard      Bear                                                 Hard                                                          Bear
Start Time      Right   Thru   Bear Left   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left    Hard Left   Peds   App. Total                       Bear Left   Hard Left   Peds   App. Total            Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right              Thru   Left    Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                               Right      Right                                                Right                                                        Right

 07:00 AM          3      0          0       0       0         3         0     135       2          0        0     137           1          0           1           0        0         2         1        4      4       1       0        10         0        0       41       1       0       42          194
 07:15 AM          7      0          0       0       0         7         0     222       2          1        0     225           0          0           0           0        0         0         1        5      5       1       0        12         0        0       33       2       0       35          279
 07:30 AM          6      1          2       1       0        10         1     233       6          2        0     242           4          1           3           1        0         9         1       12      5       1       0        19         0        2       49       7       0       58          338
 07:45 AM         10      0          0       0       0        10         1     237       5          2        0     245           1          0           0           0        0         1         0        6      4       2       0        12         1        1       65       0       0       67          335
      Total       26      1          2       1       0        30         2     827      15          5        0     849           6          1           4           1        0        12         3       27     18       5       0        53         1        3      188      10       0      202         1146

 08:00 AM         10      2          0       0       0        12         0     214       8          1        0     223           2          0           0           0        0          2        0        7      0       2       0         9         0        0       66       3       0       69          315
 08:15 AM         13      0          0       0       0        13         0     207       1          0        0     208           0          0           0           0        0          0        0        2      2       0       0         4         0        0       85       7       0       92          317
 08:30 AM          9      1          0       0       0        10         0     182       8          2        0     192           1          1           0           0        0          2        0       10      7       0       0        17         2        0       70       4       0       76          297
 08:45 AM          7      0          1       0       0         8         5     248       7          4        0     264           1          0           1           0        0          2        0       11      2       1       0        14         0        0       98       6       0      104          392
      Total       39      3          1       0       0        43         5     851      24          7        0     887           4          1           1           0        0          6        0       30     11       3       0        44         2        0      319      20       0      341         1321

 Grand Total      65      4          3       1       0        73         7 1678         39        12         0    1736          10          2            5          1        0         18        3       57      29       8      0         97         3        3      507     30       0        543        2467
   Apprch %       89     5.5      4.1       1.4      0                 0.4     96.7    2.2      0.7          0                55.6      11.1      27.8          5.6          0                 3.1     58.8    29.9    8.2       0                 0.6      0.6      93.4    5.5       0
    Total %      2.6     0.2     0.1         0       0          3      0.3       68    1.6      0.5          0    70.4         0.4       0.1       0.2            0          0       0.7       0.1      2.3     1.2    0.3       0       3.9       0.1      0.1      20.6    1.2       0         22




                               AUSTIN WY                                      SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                                     APARTMENT DRIVEWAY                                                     AUSTIN WY                                  SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                               Southbound                                           Westbound                                               Northeastbound                                                     Northbound                                       Eastbound
                                                                                                                                Hard      Bear                                                 Hard                                                          Bear
 Start Time     Right   Thru   Bear Left   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left    Hard Left   Peds   App. Total                       Bear Left   Hard Left   Peds   App. Total            Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right              Thru   Left    Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                               Right      Right                                                Right                                                        Right

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM     10       2       0     0      0     12  0 214                             8          1        0     223           2          0           0           0        0          2        0        7      0       2       0         9         0        0       66       3       0       69          315
  08:15 AM     13       0       0     0      0     13  0 207                             1          0        0     208           0          0           0           0        0          0        0        2      2       0       0         4         0        0       85       7       0       92          317
  08:30 AM       9      1       0     0      0     10  0 182                             8          2        0     192           1          1           0           0        0          2        0       10      7       0       0        17         2        0       70       4       0       76          297
  08:45 AM       7      0       1     0      0      8 5 248                              7          4        0     264           1          0           1           0        0          2        0       11      2       1       0        14         0        0       98       6       0      104          392
 Total Volume  39       3       1     0      0     43  5 851                            24          7        0     887           4          1           1           0        0          6        0       30     11       3       0        44         2        0      319      20       0      341         1321
 % App. Total   90.7       7     2.3          0      0                  0.6    95.9     2.7     0.8          0                66.7      16.7      16.7           0           0                   0     68.2      25     6.8      0                  0.6       0      93.5     5.9      0
        PHF     .750    .375   .250        .000   .000    .827        .250     .858   .750    .438        .000    .840        .500      .250      .250        .000        .000    .750        .000     .682    .393   .375    .000    .647        .250     .000      .814   .714    .000     .820          .842
                                                                        Traffic Data Service
                                                                                   Campbell, CA
                                                                                  (408) 377-2988
                                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                      File Name            : 1PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code            : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                      Start Date           : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                                      Page No              :1
                                                                           Groups Printed- Vehicles
                       FRUITVALE AVE                      SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                     GLEN UNA DR                                SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                          Southbound                               Westbound                         Northbound                                         Eastbound
 Start Time    Right   Thru   Left Peds     App. Total   Right Thru  Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                   App. Total   Right Thru   Left Peds App. Total          Int. Total
  04:00 PM        4       2    36     0          42        20    62     2     0       84      2      0     1    0                       3         1 108      3     0     112               241
  04:15 PM        5       2    51     0          58        17    52     4     0       73      1      1     0    0                       2         0 108      2     0     110               243
  04:30 PM        3       3    45     0          51        26    64     7     0       97      4      2     1    0                       7         2 126      4     0     132               287
  04:45 PM        5       8    32     0          45        19    55     2     0       76      0      2     1    0                       3         0 143      5     0     148               272
       Total     17      15 164       0         196        82 233      15     0     330       7      5     3    0                      15         3 485     14     0     502              1043

  05:00 PM        5      6     46       0        57        20     51       2       0        73         5       2      0      0          7        0    150      3       0        153        290
  05:15 PM        3      5     42       0        50         9     68       6       0        83         2       0      0      0          2        0    187      2       0        189        324
  05:30 PM        4      5     51       0        60        16     58       3       0        77         2       1      2      0          5        0    177      1       0        178        320
  05:45 PM        2      2     46       0        50        29     58       7       0        94         3       2      0      0          5        0    194      1       0        195        344
       Total     14     18    185       0       217        74    235      18       0       327        12       5      2      0         19        0    708      7       0        715       1278

 Grand Total     31     33    349       0       413       156    468      33       0       657        19     10       5      0         34        3 1193        21      0      1217         2321
  Apprch %      7.5       8   84.5      0                23.7    71.2      5       0                55.9    29.4   14.7      0                 0.2      98    1.7      0
     Total %    1.3     1.4     15      0      17.8       6.7    20.2    1.4       0      28.3       0.8     0.4    0.2      0        1.5      0.1    51.4    0.9      0       52.4




                        FRUITVALE AVE                      SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                              GLEN UNA DR                       SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                          Southbound                             Westbound                                     Northbound                             Eastbound
  Start Time   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
   05:00 PM        5       6     46      0        57   20   51              2      0        73         5       2      0      0          7        0     150      3      0        153        290
   05:15 PM        3       5     42      0        50    9   68              6      0        83         2       0      0      0          2        0     187      2      0        189        324
   05:30 PM        4       5     51      0        60   16   58              3      0        77         2       1      2      0          5        0     177      1      0        178        320
   05:45 PM        2       2     46      0        50   29   58              7      0        94         3       2      0      0          5        0     194      1      0        195        344
 Total Volume    14       18 185         0       217   74 235              18      0       327        12       5      2      0         19        0     708      7      0        715       1278
 % App. Total   6.5      8.3 85.3        0           22.6 71.9            5.5      0                63.2    26.3   10.5      0                   0      99      1      0
         PHF .700 .750 .907 .000                .904 .638 .864          .643    .000      .870      .600    .625   .250   .000      .679      .000    .912   .583   .000       .917        .929
                                                                         Traffic Data Service
                                                                                    Campbell, CA
                                                                                   (408) 377-2988
                                                                                    tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                        File Name             : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                        Site Code             : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                        Start Date            : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                                        Page No               :1
                                                                           Groups Printed- Vehicles
                       FRUITVALE AVE                      SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                     GLEN UNA DR                                  SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                          Southbound                               Westbound                          Northbound                                          Eastbound
 Start Time    Right   Thru   Left Peds     App. Total   Right Thru  Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                     App. Total   Right Thru   Left Peds App. Total           Int. Total
  07:00 AM        1       0     3     0            4       33 113       5     0     151       1      4      1    0                        6         0   35     1     0       36               197
  07:15 AM        9       1     8     0           18       74 153       7     0     234       1      5      1    0                        7         0   24     4     0       28               287
  07:30 AM        6       3     4     0           13       86 160       6     0     252       6      5      1    0                       12         0   43     4     1       48               325
  07:45 AM        2       0    15     0           17       81 164       5     0     250       3      4      0    0                        7         0   40     4     0       44               318
       Total     18       4    30     0           52      274 590      23     0     887     11      18      3    0                       32         0 142     13     1     156               1127

  08:00 AM        2       1     9       0         12       79     152       7       0       238         5      2       0       0          7        1     49       3       1         54        311
  08:15 AM        2       1    16       0         19       73     138       3       0       214         4      2       0       0          6        0     60       3       0         63        302
  08:30 AM        1       3    11       0         15       66     112       4       0       182         4      3       0       0          7        1     47       9       0         57        261
  08:45 AM        2       2    20       0         24      111     136       3       0       250         6      5       1       0         12        1     65       5       1         72        358
       Total      7       7    56       0         70      329     538      17       0       884        19     12       1       0         32        3    221      20       2        246       1232

 Grand Total     25     11     86       0       122       603    1128      40       0     1771         30      30      4       0         64        3     363     33       3        402        2359
  Apprch %     20.5       9   70.5      0                  34     63.7    2.3       0                46.9    46.9    6.2       0                 0.7    90.3    8.2     0.7
     Total %    1.1     0.5    3.6      0        5.2     25.6     47.8    1.7       0      75.1       1.3     1.3    0.2       0        2.7      0.1    15.4    1.4     0.1          17




                        FRUITVALE AVE                      SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                               GLEN UNA DR                        SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                          Southbound                             Westbound                                      Northbound                              Eastbound
  Start Time   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
   07:30 AM        6       3      4      0        13   86 160                6      0       252         6       5       1      0         12         0     43       4      1         48        325
   07:45 AM        2       0     15      0        17   81 164                5      0       250         3       4       0      0          7         0     40       4      0         44        318
   08:00 AM        2       1      9      0        12   79 152                7      0       238         5       2       0      0          7         1     49       3      1         54        311
   08:15 AM        2       1     16      0        19   73 138                3      0       214         4       2       0      0          6         0     60       3      0         63        302
 Total Volume    12        5     44      0        61 319 614                21      0       954        18      13       1      0         32         1    192      14      2        209       1256
 % App. Total  19.7      8.2 72.1        0           33.4 64.4             2.2      0                56.2    40.6     3.1      0                  0.5   91.9     6.7      1
         PHF .500 .417 .688 .000                .803 .927 .936           .750    .000      .946      .750    .650   .250    .000      .667      .250    .800   .875    .500       .829        .966
                                                                            Traffic Data Service
                                                                                       Campbell, CA
                                                                                      (408) 377-2988
                                                                                       tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                           File Name              : 5AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                           Site Code              : 00000005
                                                                                                                                                           Start Date             : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                                           Page No                :1
                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                        UNIVERSITY AVE               SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                   UNIVERSITY AVE          SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                           Southbound                         Westbound                          Northbound                   Eastbound
 Start Time     Right   Thru   Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                                             Int. Total
  07:00 AM         5       9    32     1       47     15 153      40     1     209     35       4     10    0  49       3   93     3    0      99                                                 404
  07:15 AM        10      10    26     1       47     19 197      39     0     255     30      11      7    1  49     10 113       0    1    124                                                  475
  07:30 AM         7       9    25     0       41     29 213      44     2     288     41      12     10    0  63       9 147      1    0    157                                                  549
  07:45 AM         9      20    28     0       57     37 254      66     0     357     30      10     13    0  53       6 125      8    2    141                                                  608
       Total      31      48 111       2     192 100 817 189             3    1109 136         37     40    1 214     28 478      12    3    521                                                 2036

  08:00 AM        12      19     24        1        56        36     246      54       0       336        43     12     11        0         66        8     162       3       1        174         632
  08:15 AM         9      20     35        1        65        21     232      63       0       316        41     14     11        0         66       11     152       5       2        170         617
  08:30 AM        10      30     29        1        70        35     264      59       3       361        28     13      7        0         48        8     142       8       1        159         638
  08:45 AM         9      28     33        2        72        26     285      66       3       380        33      6     10        1         50       11     141       3       1        156         658
       Total      40      97    121        5       263       118    1027    242        6     1393        145      45     39       1       230        38     597      19       5        659        2545

 Grand Total      71     145    232        7       455       218    1844     431       9     2502        281      82     79       2       444        66    1075      31       8      1180         4581
  Apprch %      15.6    31.9      51     1.5                  8.7    73.7   17.2     0.4                63.3    18.5   17.8     0.5                 5.6     91.1    2.6     0.7
     Total %     1.5      3.2    5.1     0.2        9.9       4.8    40.3     9.4    0.2      54.6        6.1    1.8    1.7       0        9.7      1.4     23.5    0.7     0.2       25.8




                        UNIVERSITY AVE                        SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD                             UNIVERSITY AVE                       SARATOGA-LOS GATOS RD
                          Southbound                                Westbound                                      Northbound                              Eastbound
  Start Time    Right   Thru     Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
   08:00 AM      12       19     24      1        56 36 246                   54       0       336        43     12     11        0         66        8     162       3       1        174         632
   08:15 AM        9      20     35      1        65 21 232                   63       0       316        41     14     11        0         66       11     152       5       2        170         617
   08:30 AM      10      30      29      1        70 35 264                   59       3       361        28     13      7        0         48        8     142       8       1        159         638
   08:45 AM        9      28     33      2       72  26 285                   66       3       380        33      6     10        1         50       11     141       3       1        156         658
 Total Volume    40       97 121         5      263 118 1027                242        6     1393        145      45     39       1       230        38     597      19       5        659        2545
 % App. Total
        PHF     .833    .808    .864    .625      .913      .819    .901    .917    .500      .916      .843    .804   .886    .250      .871      .864    .921    .594    .625       .947        .967
