                                    Hal Bohner
                                     Attorney
                   115 Angelita Avenue · Pacifica, CA 94044
                              ph/fax 650-359-4257
                             hbohner@earthlink.net

                           Submitted by email March 11, 2010



March 11, 2010

Mr. Joseph M. Hurley,
Program Director, SMCTA
P.O. Box 3006,
San Carlos, CA 94070-1306

       Re: Calera Parkway Environmental Scoping

Dear Mr. Hurley:

        I respectfully submit the following comments concerning the proposed EIR/EA
for the Calera Parkway, Highway One in Pacifica. I live in the Vallemar district of
Pacifica and am very familiar with Highway One in Pacifica.

Preliminary Matters

       I object to lack of proper notice. The plan for the project was not publicly
available before the March 3 scoping meeting. Although parts of the plan were available
a few days before the meeting, 1) much of the plan was not publicly available before the
meeting or even during the meeting, and 2) the small parts of the plan ­ namely four
drawings, were first available Monday March 1, only two days before the March 3
meeting.

        The only public information about the project was posted on the web site of the
San Mateo County Transportation Authority a few days before the public meeting held
March 3, 2010. http://www.smcta.com/whatsNew/2010_02_24_route-
1_calera_parkway_project.asp. Before the meeting all that was publicly available was
four drawings and less than a page of text describing the project.

        At the public meeting on March 3 a verbal description was provided explaining
some information about the project which was not apparent from the drawings. The fact
that such verbal description was necessary highlights the fact that important information
was not available before the public meeting. However, many questions remain
unanswered about the characteristics of the project.


                                            1
Scope and Content of the EIR/EA

       Based on the limited information about project which has been made available I
have the following comments about the proposed EIR/EA.

Alternatives

      A number of alternatives should be considered and thoroughly discussed in the
EIR/EA. The Notice of Public Meeting stated:

       "The purpose of the project is to reduce congestion on the segment
       of State Route 1/Calera Parkway in the City of Pacifica. The
       segment extends approximately 2,300 feet north of Reina De Mar
       Avenue to approximately 1,500 feet south of Fassler and
       Rockaway Beach avenues."

       In addition to the proposed highway widening project there are other ways to
reduce congestion. Those ways should be explained and discussed as alternatives. The
explanation and discussion should not be cursory but instead should be detailed and
thorough in order to allow decision makers and the public to understand the alternatives
and realistically compare them with the proposed project. The following are some
examples of alternatives.

School bussing program

        Many members of the public who spoke at the March 3 meeting stated that the
problem which the project is intended to address, namely congestion of Highway One,
only occurs when school is in session, and the problem is caused by many parents driving
their children to and from school. They also recommended that a system for bussing
students to school would take many cars off the road during the peak traffic period.

       I live near Vallemar School and drive my son to school at Ocean Shore School.
Based on my personal observations it is clear to me that considerable congestion is
caused by parents driving their children to and from school. A school bussing program
should be discussed as an alternative. Can funding allocated for the present Calera
Parkway project be redirected to a school bussing program?

Improved public transit for commuters

       Another alternative which should be discussed is to improve public transit for
commuters. This could be accomplished in a variety of ways, for example by adding a
commuter parking lot e.g. at Linda Mar or expanding the existing commuter lot. Then
bus service should be improved. Service should be to BART and to downtown San
Francisco and during main commute hours the service should be improved.




                                            2
        I have tried to take SAMTRANS to BART during the commute hour and found
the schedule to be quite poor which discourages commuters from taking public transit.
The EIR/EA should discuss the expected effectiveness of improved public transit on
getting cars off the road.

Car Pooling

       A program could be provided to expand car pooling. E.g. a government
sponsored web site to enable people to organize car pools.

No project alternative

      The alternative of "no project" should be realistically discussed and evaluated.
What has been the trend in single-passenger commuters in recent years? It will probably
go down with increasing gas prices and improved public transit, and the "problem" may
go away by itself. What has been the trend of the "problem" in recent years?

Energy Aware Planning Guide

        The California Energy Commission recently released a report titled "Energy
Aware Planning Guide". (Document CEC-600-2009-013, December 2009 -
http://www.energy.ca.gov/2009publications/CEC-600-2009-013/). The Guide includes a
section titled "Transportation Strategies" which includes a number of strategies to reduce
commuting by automobile. These strategies should be discussed as alternatives since
they can reduce the need for highway widening. For example, the Guide states:
"By encouraging residents and workers to use mass transit instead of driving, local
governments can help reduce the energy use and greenhouse gas emissions associated
with transportation, as well as the maintenance and construction costs of road upkeep and
widening." (Guide pg T.1.1 1)

        Not only does the Energy Aware Planning Guide provide a variety of options to
improve public transit it also gives examples of cities which have successfully
implemented such improvements. This is a strong indication that transit improvements
and related strategies can and will result in reduced congestion on Highway One in
Pacifica in the near future.

Questions which should be addressed in the DEIR/EA

What exactly is the proposed project and what would be its effect?

       Four drawings of the project were presented at the March 3 public meeting and
some verbal description of the project was provided. However, many questions remain,
which should be answered in the DEIR. For example: What would happen at the
entrance to the GGNRA at Shelldance? Are sound barriers proposed? The drawings
which were presented at the March 3 meeting include lots of yellow lines. The legend on
the drawings indicates that the yellow lines are "proposed roadway improvements."


                                            3
What do the yellow diamonds on the yellow lines mean? Do all the yellow lines really
indicate the same thing ­ that seems unlikely.

        What exactly would be done to the timing of the lights at all of the intersections
affected by the project? What exactly is the timing now?

        If the project is built as proposed how much exactly would the problem be
reduced? It would not be adequate to simply state that the LOS would be improved.
Rather, there should be a full discussion of the effect on traffic delay and LOS under a
variety of circumstances and conditions. On some days the delay is far less than on
others. On days and at times where the delay is small I would assume that the project
would have little effect, if any. Graphs should be provided similar to the graphs
discussed below in the section titled "What Exactly is the Scope of the Problem Today?"

        It appears that the plan is that Highway One would transition between four and six
lanes around the intersection with Mori Point Road. That means lots of merging and
unmerging of traffic. What exactly will occur? Will there be a severe bottleneck ? Will
it be safe?

What would be the environmental effects of further dividing Pacifica?

         In the past the north end of Pacifica was divided by making Highway One a grade
separated freeway. It is plain that the effect of this division on Pacifica has been severe
and adverse. It is likely that the present proposed project would have similar adverse
effects on Pacifica. There should be a discussion of what exactly would be the effect on
Pacifica of further dividing the town. An urban planner should be engaged to do a
realistic evaluation and report.

        Instead of becoming more of a freeway Highway One should become less.
Instead of limited access points to Highway One there should be multiple access points.
In other words, between Reina Del Mar and Fassler additional access for cross streets
should be provided. A good example is Highway One in the northern part of Santa Cruz
where there is access to Highway One at each block. If there is a major development in
the Quarry it should not be restricted to only two access roads. Instead there should be
access each block like in Santa Cruz.

        Also, there should be a discussion of the impact on Pacifica of adding frontage
roads in the project area instead of simply widening the highway. At present emergency
vehicles can be stuck in traffic on Highway One between Reina del Mar and Fassler
Avenue. The effect of the proposed Calera Parkway on this situation should be
discussed. Adding frontage roads would provide alternative routes for emergency
vehicles. Similarly, if the Quarry is developed and there are multiple access points from
Highway One to the streets in the Quarry project, emergency vehicles would have the
option of multiple routes.




                                             4
Effect on Other Intersections

        What is the long-range plan for the intersections of Highway One with Westport
St., Bradford Way and the GGNRA entrance and exit at Shelldance? Presently they are
dangerous intersections. For safety, traffic on Highway One should be slower there not
faster. The effect of the proposed Calera Parkway on these intersections should be
discussed. Consideration should be given to providing stop lights or other types of
improved access there.

What is the exact scope of the problem today?

       Past environmental impact reports which have addressed Highway One in
Pacifica have not adequately discussed certain issues. The presently proposed Calera
Parkway EIR should not perpetuate these same shortcomings.

        A recent example of an EIR which discusses the section of Highway One between
Fassler Avenue and Reina del Mar Avenue is "Harmony @ 1 ­ Roberts Road
Subdivision, Draft Environmental Impact Report ­ June 2007."
http://www.cityofpacifica.org/civica/filebank/blobdload.asp?BlobID=2637
The Harmony DEIR discusses current traffic conditions in Section 9.1 "Existing
Conditions" and in Appendix G. The DEIR reports the delay and the LOS for Route 1
and Fassler Ave/Rockaway Beach and Route 1 and Reina Del Mar Avenue. However, it
does not report the delay and LOS during the summer or at other times when school is
not in session. Moreover, it does not report the duration of the maximum delay and the
lowest LOS. In the proposed EIR for the Calera Parkway both of these subjects should
be thoroughly discussed.

        From my observations I would expect that when school is not in session the
maximum delay is far less than when school is in session. Moreover, I expect that that
the maximum delay lasts for only a few minutes during the AM peak and the PM peak,
and at other times the delay is far less. Also, I have observed a wide variability in traffic
delay from day to day at the same time of day for no apparent reason. The DEIR for the
Calera Parkway project should report delays for a number of randomly selected days and
not report just one severe day and imply that the delays are always the same. Providing
data for only one day is misleading at best.

        The DEIR should include graphs. There should be one graph for each major
intersection showing on one axis the time of day and on the other axis the delay and the
LOS. My expectation is that such graphs would show that the maximum delay occurs
only for a short duration; during most of the day there are only slight delays. Moreover,
for each intersection there should be multiple graphs for different days selected
randomly. My expectation is that for many days the delay will not be severe at any time.

Implied assumptions




                                              5
        Assumptions about future traffic delays which I expect would be implicit in the
DEIR should be made explicit. In other words, I expect that the DEIR will report the
present traffic delays, and there will be an implicit assumption that these delays will
remain the same or will increase in the future. However, this assumption should be stated
explicitly. Furthermore, there should be a realistic admission that in the future traffic
delays will lessen if public transit service is improved, which would result in fewer
drivers on the highway.

Other Issues

       Will Highway One be affected by ocean rise due to global warming? Will it have
to be moved in the future? When and to where?
       Expansion of Highway One would encourage development of the Quarry.
However, that would have serious adverse effects on endangered species. There should
be thorough discussion of this issue.

        The Golden Gate National recreation Area may not allow widening through the
cut just north of Reina del Mar. Would an Act of Congress be necessary? What is the
policy of GGNRA on this? Have they been asked? If the Highway cannot be widened
there then the project will not accomplish any reduction in congestion.

        What is the overall plan for Highway 1 in Pacifica.? How would this proposed
project interact with the rest of Highway 1 in the future?

        The proposed highway would be nearer to endangered species habitat than the
existing highway. What is the position of the Coastal Commission, the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service and other agencies on this?

Project Funding

       What will the project cost and is the money available?

       Would Pacifica have to provide money for the project?


Thank you for your consideration of these comments.


Sincerely,




Hal Bohner




                                           6
                                   Hal Bohner
                                    Attorney
                   115 Angelita Avenue · Pacifica, CA 94044
                                ph/fax 650-359-4257
                               hbohner@earthlink.net


                                Submitted by email to
                       smcta_feedback@smcta.com July 15, 2010



Mr. Joseph M. Hurley,
Program Director, SMCTA
P.O. Box 3006,
San Carlos, CA 94070-1306

       Re: Calera Parkway Environmental Scoping

Dear Mr. Hurley:

        I respectfully submit the following comments concerning the proposed EIR/EA
for the Calera Parkway, Highway One in Pacifica. I live in the Vallemar district of
Pacifica and am very familiar with Highway One in Pacifica.

     I submitted some comments March 11, and I request you to consider those earlier
comments in addition to the present ones.

Preliminary Matters

       I object to lack of proper notice and opportunity to comment.

        I have attended the two recent public meetings and studied the materials on your
web site, and I have attempted to obtain additional information about the project by a
request under the California Public Records Act (email dated June 9.) In response to my
request I received an email from Martha Martinez dated June 17, 2010 stating, "Many of
the preliminary studies and reports that will be incorporated into the EA/DEIR
preparation process are still in draft form . . . . These documents are therefore not
available for public review . . . ."

        I object to the refusal to provide me documents which should be available under
the Public Records Act. At the scoping meetings you and others stated that one purpose
of the meetings was to receive comments from the public concerning the project.
However, by denying the public access to information concerning the project in advance
of the scoping meetings you foreclose our opportunity to make fully informed comments.
Furthermore, as I am sure you know, one of the main purposes of the CEQA process is
transparency and openness of government processes to the public. However by denying
public access to the very documents which will be the basis of the EIR you are thwarting
one of the main objectives of CEQA.


                                           1
Scope and Content of the EIR/EA

        You have, of course, held public meetings in Pacifica on March 3 and June 22,
and you have posted some information concerning the project on your web site. Based
on the limited information about project which has been made available I have the
following comments about the proposed EIR/EA.

School bus program

       I and many others have stated that the problem which the project is intended to
address, namely congestion of Highway One, only occurs when school is in session, and
the problem is caused by many parents driving their children to and from school. We
have recommended that a system for bussing students to and from school would take
many cars off the road during the peak traffic periods.

        I appreciate that at your June 22 meeting you addressed the school bus issue.
However, you concluded that school bussing would not provide any significant reduction
of congestion, and that you would therefore not study the option further. Unfortunately
that conclusion was based on drastically inadequate analysis.

        At the June 22 meeting you presented the document titled "Route 1/Calera
Parkway Project ­ Preliminary Concepts Matrix (May 2010)."
(Preliminary_Concepts_Matrix_06-02-2010.pdf) Row J discusses school buses and
states in one column, "Provide increased school bus service to the elementary school on
Reina Del Mar Avenue." And in the adjacent column, "Could provide small benefit for
portion of AM peak commute congestion (NB) but not enough to reduce backups
significantly. Would not provide benefit for any of the PM commute congestion (SB)."

        There are serious deficiencies in your analysis. First, it fails to account for the
other seven schools in Pacifica. Second, your results just plain do not conform to reality.

         There are eight schools in Pacifica, not just the Vallemar School which you
mention in your matrix. The Pacifica School District and Jefferson Union High School
District have open enrollment policies which means that children from anywhere in the
district can attend any school in the district, regardless of where the student resides, as
long as the school has space. Each of the schools has a different character and emphasis
which attracts parents having different interests. The net result is that parents drive all
over Pacifica taking their children to the grade schools and middle school during the AM
commute hour and then drive home again. Turning to the two high schools, parents
living in Pacifica and also from other cities often drive their kids to one of those two
schools and then drive home again during the AM commute hour. Some kids drive
themselves to and from school. For your analysis to ignore almost all of the Pacifica
schools is simply ridiculous.

       Moreover, your conclusion that school buses would provide only a small
reduction in congestion is just plain wrong. At your scoping meetings you heard from


                                             2
many Pacifica residents that on days when school is not in session but people commute to
work, e.g. summers, congestion of Highway One is considerably less than when school
is in session. Unfortunately, you have provided no information during your scoping
meetings to indicate that you have done any studies to validate or refute the anecdotal
information you received from many Pacificans.

        You dismissed school busses as a solution because you feel they would not affect
PM, southbound congestion. However, the basis for this conclusion has not been made
public and I must assume that it is not based on studies or data. And I must assume that
you have failed to consider the following:

       1) Some of the grade schools provide after school childcare which results in
       parents driving to pick up their kids during the PM commute period.
       2) High school students who have after school activities often drive during the
       PM commute period.
       3) Traffic congestion on Highway One during the PM commute period is not as
       severe as during the AM period. Therefore reducing congestion during the PM
       period should have less priority than during the AM period.
       4) Even if school buses would only reduce AM congestion that is not a good
       reason not to consider them.

Traffic Projections

        You have predicted significant increases in congestion by 2035 if the proposed
project is not completed. However, I believe that you are drastically exaggerating the
potential problem.

       For example, in your document "State Route 1/Calera Parkway Project -
Information Update Report - June 2010" (Information_Update Report_DRAFT_06-02-
2010.pdf) you state,

       "As a result, the Year 2007 northbound State Route 1 backup from Fassler
       Avenue south during the northbound morning commute averaged about
       one-third of a mile and extended up to one-half mile during the peak hour.
       This backup or "queue" is projected to extend an average of one mile and
       as much as 1.7 miles south of Fassler Avenue by Year 2035 without any
       improvements."

       Similarly the graph you presented titled "Peak Spreading ­ Year 2035 Travel
Time Variations (7:30AM- 10:AM) NB SR1-Crespi Drive to Reina del Mar Avenue"
shows dramatic increases in congestion by 2035.

       However, in my opinion these dire predictions are not warranted.

       The basis for your traffic projection is that between the present and 2035 the
population will increase 0.75% per year, and this projection is based on ABAG Regional



                                            3
growth projections. This is stated on your slide titled "Traffic Analysis" which is page 11
of the document Hwy-1-Calera_Public_Info_Mtg_6-22-10_v15_web.pdf.

        I disagree with your assumption of population growth. In fact ABAG projects
population growth of 0.75% per year for all of San Mateo County. It seems absurd to me
to use the population growth projection for the whole county. Instead you should use the
population projection for Pacifica and possibly the coast side south of Pacifica. For
Pacifica and the coastside ABAG projects much lower population growth than 0.75% - in
fact, about 90% lower.

       I have received from ABAG their current population figures and projections for
2035 for Pacifica and for the unincorporated area between Pacifica and Half Moon Bay
which are as follows:

                               Year 2010                      Year 2035
        Pacifica               39,100                         39,800
        Unincorporated         11,600                         11,800
        area


        As you can see ABAG predicts Pacifica to grow only slightly - according to my
calculations at the rate of about 0.07% per year. The same is true for the unincorporated
area. These projections are only about 10% of your projections. If I am correct then your
alarming predictions of future traffic congestion are unwarranted.


Increased or Modified Transit Service

       At your June 22 meeting you indicated that you had considered "Increased or
Modified Transit Service." In "Route 1/Calera Parkway Project ­ Preliminary Concepts
Matrix (May 2010)." (Preliminary_Concepts_Matrix_06-02-2010.pdf) Row I you
described the option as:

       "Provide increased transit service to areas and points both north and south
       via additional bus routes, increased bus headways (more busses),
       additional park-n-ride lots, additional feeder shuttles, etc."

And you concluded that further study of the option was not warranted because:

       "High operating cost over time; high initial cost for some options;
       does not provide significant improvement in congestion relief."

        Your conclusion not to pursue this option is disappointing. Unfortunately I am
not able to comment on it in detail because you fail to provide any significant information
to explain the basis for your conclusion.




                                            4
       In your document "State Route 1/Calera Parkway Project ­ Public Information
meeting - June 22, 2010" (Hwy-1-Calera_Public_Info_Mtg_06-02-2010_v15_web.pdf)
you provide a graph titled "Concept I ­ Increased / Modified Transit." The meaning of
the graph is not clear, but I interpret it to show essentially that if more people ride transit
then fewer people would drive their cars. There are points on the graph labeled "Needed
PM" and "Needed AM" which correspond to about 80 buses per hour. I assume this to
mean that you have determined that you would have to run about 80 buses per hour to
completely eliminate congestion.

       If my assumptions about your analysis are correct, I have the following
comments. 1) You are assuming that you need to run 80 buses per hour and that doing so
would be prohibitively expensive. However, there is nothing magic about 80 buses per
hour. If you run fewer than 80 you would reduce congestion, at least somewhat, which
would be a good thing. 2) You conclude that improving bus service would result in
increased costs both initially and over time. What about charging more to the riders to
recover part or all of the costs? 3) You predict that the proposed widening project would
cost $45 million to $65 million. Common sense indicates that you could make incredible
improvements to the bus system for that amount of money.

        In "Route 1/Calera Parkway Project ­ Preliminary Concepts Matrix (May 2010)."
(Preliminary_Concepts_Matrix_06-02-2010.pdf) Row I you state that improved transit,
"does not provide significant improvement in congestion relief." On the other hand your
graph suggests that adding 80 buses per hour would eliminate congestion and adding
fewer buses would reduce congestion in direct relation to the number of buses. Both of
these things cannot be true; either buses could provide significant congestion relief or
they could not. Also, what exactly do you mean by "significant improvement?" How
much improvement would in fact be provided?

         The San Mateo County Transportation Authority and many other organizations
espouse the benefits of public transit for many good reasons. (E.g.
http://www.smcta.com/alternative_congestion_relief.html ) It is hypocritical, to say the
least, to praise the benefits of public transit while rejecting any possibility of improved
public transit in Pacifica.

Other Questions

        I request that some other issues be addressed in the DEIR/EA

1)      One column of your Preliminary Concepts Matrix is headed
        "Feasibility/Effectiveness". In that you column you make many qualitative
        judgments such as, "does not appreciably enhance traffic operations' (Row C);
        "Very high right of way cost. Minimal traffic benefit for highway thru traffic."
        (Row G); "does not provide an appreciable benefit" (Row H). In the EIR please
        quantify this information. Does "not appreciably" mean 5% or 40%? CEQA is
        intended to be a tool for decision makers and for the public to understand how




                                               5
       decisions are made. Quantified information is essential to an informed public
       process.

2)     If the project is built - -
       How long would the construction phase be?
       What are the details of the construction phase ­ e.g. will traffic be re-routed -
       where? What delays will drivers experience?
       Where will materials and equipment be stored?

3)     You have considered a pedestrian overcrossing at Reina del Mar and concluded
       that it, "does not appreciably enhance traffic operations and creates pedestrian
       safety problem since some people will still try to cross at grade but without a
       crosswalk and signal delay to protect them." Please explain exactly how much
       this alternative would reduce congestion. Please provide your basis for
       concluding that there would be a safety problem and explain how serious the
       problem would be.

4)     Please discuss the alternative of a pedestrian undercrossing or tunnel at Reina del
       Mar. How much would congestion be relieved? Would it be safer than an
       overcrossing since pedestrians would tend to use it more than they would use an
       overcrossing?



Thank you for your consideration of these comments.


Sincerely,




Hal Bohner




                                             6
Route 1/Calera Parkway Project - Preliminary Concepts Matrix (May 2010)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Further
             Concept                                                                   Description                                                                                         Feasibility / Effectiveness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Study

 A   Widen 4-lane to 6-lane          Widen 4 lanes to 6 lanes from 460 ft south of Fassler Ave to 660 ft north of Reina Del Mar Ave. (Exhibit A)      Impacts wetlands and special status species habitat; only evaluated traffic growth out to Year 2010
     - 0.8 miles                                                                                                                                      but now must evaluate to Year 2035 (Caltrans requires 20 year benefit from estimated construction
     (from 1999 PSR)                                                                                                                                  year); does not provide traffic benefit to Year 2035 because third lane does not extend far enough           No
                                                                                                                                                      south of Fassler Ave intersection or far enough north of Reina Del Mar intersection.

 B   Widen 4-lane to 6-lane          Variations on the 1999 PSR version were explored in mid 2000s. Widen 4 lanes to 6 lanes from 500 ft south        Impacts wetlands and special status species habitat; evaluated traffic growth out to Year 2030;
     - 1.0 miles                     of Fassler Ave to 1,700 ft north of Reina Del Mar Ave. (Exhibit B1)                                              does not provide traffic benefit to Year 2035 because third lane does not extend far enough south
     (from preliminary studies)      - A variation of this idea includes splitting NB and SB directions of roadway through Quarry Site to go around   of Fassler Ave intersection or far enough north of Reina Del Mar intersection. Determined during             No
                                     existing wetlands. (Exhibit B2)                                                                                  Coastal Commission consultations that impacting wetlands is not allowed.

 C   Widen 4-lane to 6-lane          Widen 4 lanes to 6 lanes from 1,500 ft south of Fassler Ave to 2,300 ft north of Reina Del Mar Ave. Shifted      Provides improvement in traffic operations over existing conditions out to Year 2035. Does not
     - 1.3 miles                     alignment east to eliminate wetland impacts. Explored idea of restoring Calera Creek crossing. (Exhibit C1)      impact wetlands like Concepts A and B. Pedestrian overcrossing at Reina Del Mar does not
     (from current studies)          - A second variation of this idea included a pedestrian overcrossing at Reina Del Mar Avenue. (Exhibit C2)       appreciably enhance traffic operations and creates pedestrian safety problem since some people             C1 - No
                                     - A third variation of this idea drops the 3rd southbound lane at Fassler Avenue and only two lanes continue     will still try to cross at grade but without a crosswalk and signal delay to protect them. Landscaped      C2 - No
                                     south of Fassler. Calera Creek restoration idea is dropped. (Exhibit C3)                                         median variation (C4) would have more impacts and cost than narrow median (C3) but same traffic            C3 - Yes
                                     - A fourth variation, similar to C3, includes a landscaped median between San Marlo Way and Reina Del Mar        operations.                                                                                                C4 - Yes
                                     Avenue. (Exhibit C4)

 D   Partial Widening at             Five-lane or six-lane widening for short segment north and south of Reina Del Mar intersection with 4-lane       Would improve capacity at Reina Del Mar, but would shift the bottleneck to the south between
     Reina Del Mar Avenue            segment between the two intersections. (Exhibit D)                                                               Fassler and Reina Del Mar.
     (from 2004 Scoping Mtg)         Variations of this idea analyzed widening for different length segments:
                                     - 4 to 5 lanes for 800 ft (NB right-turn lane in/out of Reina Del Mar Avenue)                                                                                                                                                 No
                                     - 4 to 6 lanes for 1,100 ft
                                     - 4 to 6 lanes for 1,700 ft
                                     - 4 to 6 lanes for 2,300 ft
 E   Grade Separation at             Shift Route 1 alignment on top of embankments at Reina Del Mar Avenue to separate highway from Reina             A grade separation would provide the most significant traffic operations benefit but would require
     Reina Del Mar Avenue            Del Mar and use retaining walls to minimize impacts. Included creek crossing restoration idea. Several           on & off ramps with controlled access so driveways could not access directly to/from ramps. First
     (from current studies)          variations on this theme were evaluated including:                                                               variation with simple tight diamond would not be feasible due to controlled access of ramps. Other
                                     - Tight diamond interchange with east side business driveways accessing directly to/from on and off ramps.       two variations would have much higher cost due to additional frontage road requirements. City not
                                     (Exhibit E1)                                                                                                     supportive of additional NB "out of direction" travel to access businesses on east side at Reina Del         No
                                     - Tight diamond with one-way frontage road on the east side extending north from Harvey Way. (Exhibit E2)        Mar Avenue with NB hook ramps option. Raised highway would create additional visual and noise
                                     - Southbound tight diamond with northbound hook ramps and two-way frontage road south of Reina Del Mar           impacts. Potential for additional cultural resource impacts.
                                     on east side. (Exhibit E3)

 F   Roundabout (Traffic Circle)     Install roundabout in place of signal at either one or both intersections. (Exhibit F)                           Significant business and R/W impacts at intersections with roundabout/widening large enough to
     (from 2004 Scoping Mtg)                                                                                                                          meet traffic demand. Additional right-turn slip ramps needed. Full six-lane widening still needed
                                                                                                                                                      on Route 1 between Fassler and Reina Del Mar to make either or both roundabouts work. The
                                                                                                                                                      multi-lane roundabouts required to meet traffic demand are unsafe for pedestrian crossing and                No
                                                                                                                                                      bike traffic due to the large number of uncontrolled traffic lanes a pedestrian or bicyclist must
                                                                                                                                                      cross.

 G   Frontage Road on West Side      Construct a 2-way frontage road through the Quarry site from Dondee Way to Reina Del Mar Avenue.                 Very high right of way cost. Minimal traffic benefit for highway thru traffic.
     (from 2004 Scoping Mtg)         (Exhibit G)                                                                                                                                                                                                                   No

 H   Signal Interconnect &           Install signal interconnect cable between the two signals to coordinate timing of green phases.                 Signal interconnect does not provide an appreciable benefit due to the distance between the two
     Signal Timing Improvements      (no exhibit)                                                                                                    signals. Traffic signal retiming would improve congestion initially based on existing traffic volumes
     (from current studies)          - A variation of this idea includes widening to add a 3rd lane in northbound direction only. (no exhibit) (from but then benefit dissipates by about Year 2015 and offers little benefit as traffic demand increases          No
                                     2004 Scoping Mtg)                                                                                               in the future.

 I   Increased or Modified Transit   Provide increased transit service to areas and points both north and south via additional bus routes,            High operating cost over time; high initial cost for some options; does not provide significant
     Service                         increased bus headways (more busses), additional park-n-ride lots, additional feeder shuttles, etc. (no          improvement in congestion relief.                                                                            No
     (from current studies)          exhibit)
 J   School Bus Service to           Provide increased school bus service to the elementary school on Reina Del Mar Avenue.                           Could provide small benefit for portion of AM peak commute congestion (NB) but not enough to
     Elementary School at Vallemar   (no exhibit)                                                                                                     reduce backups significantly.                                                                                No
     (from current studies)                                                                                                                           Would not provide benefit for any of the PM commute congestion (SB).

 K   Moveable Cones or Barrier       Install moveable concrete barrier to provide 3 lanes in peak direction and 1 lane in off-peak direction. (no     Very difficult to implement with signalized intersections; movable barrier is in conflict with left-hand
     (from 2010 Scoping Mtg)         exhibit)                                                                                                         turns at intersections; high ongoing operations cost; traffic impact in off-peak direction if 5th lane
                                     - Another variation of this idea uses moveable cones instead of barrier.                                         not added. Movable cones create safety hazard since no fixed barrier between opposing traffic.               No
                                     - Another variation would include widening to 5 lanes w/ movable cones/barrier (3/2 split).                      The 5-lane widening would have both initial widening construction cost & ongoing operations cost.
                           State Route 1/Calera Parkway Project

                           Information Update Report
                                          June 2010

Overview

The segment of State Route 1 between Fassler Avenue and Reina Del Mar Avenue has been
a traffic congestion point along the coast since the mid-1980s. The original San Mateo
County Measure "A" sales tax program, approved by voters in 1988, identified this segment
of State Route 1 as a potential project that would be eligible for funding. Since then, the
congestion has been studied and evaluated through the Caltrans project development process.
This segment was first referred to as "State Route 1 ­ Fassler to Westport" but is now
referred to as "State Route 1/Calera Parkway."

Preliminary studies were done in the 1990s, culminating in the approval by Caltrans of the
City's 1999 Project Study Report (PSR). The PSR concluded that State Route 1 should be
widened from four lanes to six lanes between Fassler Avenue and Reina Del Mar Avenue.
Further studies were undertaken in the early 2000s and a Public Scoping Meeting was held in
April 2004. Public comments provided at this scoping meeting included questions about
whether a project was needed; requests to evaluate other alternatives; concerns about impacts
to wetlands, wildlife habitat, and cultural sites; and concerns regarding the perceived growth
inducement potential of this project.

Based on these concerns, additional traffic studies, biological studies, and engineering
analyses were conducted in the mid 2000s. The work was done to clarify the nature of the
traffic problems, further identify the status of endangered species and environmentally
sensitive habitat areas, identify the exact limits of wetlands adjacent to State Route 1, and
develop and evaluate concepts that avoid or minimize environmental impacts. In addition,
the California Coastal Commission staff was consulted to clarify their jurisdiction and
concerns for the area.

Traffic Analysis

The additional traffic studies utilized Year 2007 traffic counts and projected traffic volumes
to Year 2015 (estimated completion of construction) and Year 2035 (future design year
required by Caltrans). They identified the principal bottleneck to be the result of the two
signalized intersections at Reina Del Mar Avenue and Fassler Avenue combined with the
large influx of commute traffic from Fassler Avenue. Studies of the morning northbound
commute traffic on State Route 1 identified that approximately one-third enters from Fassler
Avenue, one-third enters between Crespi Drive and Linda Mar Boulevard, and one-third
comes from points south of Linda Mar Boulevard.

The four-lane segment between Fassler Avenue and Reina Del Mar Avenue does not allow
enough traffic through the signals during each phase to keep up with demand so the traffic
slowly backs up during commute hours with each cycle of the signals. As a result, the Year


Hwy 1/Calera Parkway Project                Page 1 of 4            May 2010 Information Update
2007 northbound State Route 1 backup from Fassler Avenue south during the northbound
morning commute averaged about one-third of a mile and extended up to one-half mile
during the peak hour. This backup or "queue" is projected to extend an average of one mile
and as much as 1.7 miles south of Fassler Avenue by Year 2035 without any improvements.
The Year 2007 southbound State Route 1 backup from Reina Del Mar Avenue north during
the southbound evening commute averaged about one-half mile and extended up to 1.5 miles
during the peak hour. This queue is projected to extend an average of 1.3 miles and as much
as 2.2 miles north of Reina Del Mar Avenue by Year 2035 without any improvements.

The four-lane highway north of Reina Del Mar Avenue has capacity to handle the existing
and projected traffic since there are no further signalized intersections. Similarly, the four-
lane and two-lane segments south of Fassler Avenue are sufficient to handle the existing and
projected traffic volumes.

A solution to improve traffic flow along the corridor would need to address the bottleneck
caused by the two signalized intersections at Fassler Avenue and Reina Del Mar Avenue.
Once through these two intersections in the northbound direction, the traffic would continue
flowing smoothly on the freeway section north of Reina Del Mar Avenue. Once southbound
traffic gets through these two intersections and one-third of the traffic has exited at Fassler
Avenue, the remaining traffic would continue moving smoothly south of the project area.

Coastal Habitat

Preliminary environmental studies identified the potential for two endangered species to be
present in the project area. They are the California red-legged frog and the San Francisco
garter snake. Meetings with the California Coastal Commission (CCC) staff confirmed that
they have jurisdictional authority over the project area due to its proximity to the coast and
that the California Coastal Act would not allow any impacts to area wetlands by these types
of traffic congestion relief projects. The exact limits of area wetlands adjacent to State Route
1 have been identified and delineated in accordance with the CCC criteria.

Concept Evaluations

Based on the updated traffic analysis and the latest environmental information, a variety of
concepts were evaluated to see if there was a viable project that could relieve existing and
future congestion without adversely impacting coastal wetlands or critical endangered
species habitat. The concepts included the following:

   ·   Interconnect the two traffic signals and optimizing signal timing
   ·   Improve signal timing and add a third lane in the northbound direction only
   ·   Widen State Route 1 from four lanes to six lanes for varying distances north and
       south of Reina Del Mar Avenue intersection
   ·   Widen the entire State Route 1 segment from south of Fassler Avenue to north of
       Reina Del Mar Avenue from four lanes to six lanes
   ·   Install roundabouts and remove the signals at either or both traffic intersections
   ·   Install a pedestrian overcrossing on State Route 1 at Reina Del Mar Avenue



Hwy 1/Calera Parkway Project                Page 2 of 4            May 2010 Information Update
   ·    Construct a separate frontage road parallel to State Route 1 between the two traffic
        signals
   ·    Construct a grade-separated interchange at Route1 and Reina Del Mar Avenue
   ·    Increase or modify transit service
   ·    Providing school bus service to Vallemer school

Based on a balancing of traffic benefits, environmental impacts, right of way impacts and
cost, the most viable solution to address traffic congestion is to widen State Route 1 from
four lanes to six lanes from south of Fassler Avenue to north of Reina Del Mar Avenue.

Environmental Review Process

In the late 2000s, the San Mateo County Transportation Authority (SMCTA) began
consulting with Caltrans to undergo the next phase of the project development process, the
Project Approval/Environmental Documentation (PA/ED) phase. Under this phase, technical
studies on all aspects of the project were developed including:

    ·   Traffic analysis
    ·   Cultural, archaeological, historical, biological, and natural environment resources
    ·   Air and noise pollution
    ·   Right of way impacts
    ·   Hydraulics, storm water, and water quality
    ·   Geotechnical conditions and hazardous materials
    ·   Further engineering analysis of potential alternatives

Supporting activities included further consultation with various regulatory and permitting
agencies.

As part of the environmental process, a public environmental scoping meeting is held to
solicit input from the community on environmental issues of concern that should be
considered in the preparation of the proposed project's environmental document. Although a
public environmental scoping meeting had already been held in 2004, the City of Pacifica,
SMCTA, and Caltrans felt it was appropriate to hold a second public scoping meeting since
so much time had passed. On March 3, 2010, a second public environmental scoping
meeting was held. In response to public comments and questions raised at that meeting, a
public information meeting has been scheduled for June 22, 2010, to present more of the
background information regarding what has been studied during the period between the two
scoping meetings.

This public information meeting will provide the community an opportunity to learn more
about the project investigations that have already been undertaken and to ask questions and
provide additional comments to the project development team.

Once all the environmental and engineering technical studies are completed, the findings will
be summarized in a draft Environmental Document that will be published for formal public
and agency review and comment in accordance with the California Environmental Quality


Hwy 1/Calera Parkway Project                Page 3 of 4            May 2010 Information Update
Act (CEQA) and the National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA). After a period of
circulation and comment on the draft environmental document, all comments will be
addressed and a final environmental document and project report will be issued for approval
by regulatory agencies and Caltrans.


Schedule

The estimated schedule for completing the environmental process is as follows:

Hold Public Informational Meeting                                        June 22, 2010

Complete Draft Environmental Document (ED)                               December 2010

Public Circulation of Draft ED                                           January 2011

Hold Public Hearing on Draft ED                                          February 2011

Complete Final ED                                                        September 2011

Approve Environmental Document                                           October 2011




Hwy 1/Calera Parkway Project              Page 4 of 4           May 2010 Information Update
Hal Bohner
From:                             Hing Wong [Hingw@abag.ca.gov]
Sent:                             Wednesday, July 14, 2010 12:00 PM
To:                               Hal Bohner
Cc:                               Kenneth Moy; Paul Fassinger
Subject:                          Re: Requested Information
Attachments:                      San Mateo Coast - What If.xls; San Mateo County Map.pdf


Dear Mr. Bohner:

The Building Momentum: Projections and Priorities 2009 data is in the attached Excel file under the tab
"Projections 2009 (adopted)".

Half Moon Bay Unincorporated is north of the City of Half Moon Bay. It includes the communities of Montara, Moss
Beach, Half Moon Bay Airport, and El Granada. Attached is a San Mateo County map which shows that area.

Hing Wong,     AICP

Senior Regional Planner, Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG)

P.O. Box 2050, Oakland, CA 94604-2050
     510.464.7966   |    510.433.5566   |     hingw@abag.ca.gov



>>> "Hal Bohner" <hbohner@earthlink.net> 7/14/2010 9:22 AM >>>
Dear Mr. Wong:

Thank you for this very helpful information. I have some additional questions, please, if you don't mind.

Concerning the ABAG final projections in the Building Momentum: Projections and Priorities 2009 document - could
you please let me know the population in 2010 and the projections for 2035 for: 1) Pacifica, 2) Half Moon Bay
Unincorporated; and 3) San Mateo County.

Also, could you please give me a general idea of the boundaries of the area denominated "Half Moon Bay
Unincorporated."

Thanks again for your help.

Hal Bohner
 ----- Original Message -----
 From: Hing Wong
 To: hbohner@earthlink.net
 Cc: Kenneth Moy ; Paul Fassinger
 Sent: Friday, July 09, 2010 5:55 PM
 Subject: Requested Information

 Dear Mr. Bohner:

 Approximately every two years, the Association of Bay Area Governments prepares a population,
 households, and jobs forecast for the San Francisco Bay Area. The Projections 2009: What If? document is a
 prelude to the Building Momentum: Projections and Priorities 2009 document. The Projections 2009:
 What If? was meant to stimulate discussion with local jurisdictions, communities, and stakeholders about
 possible scenarios of local land use changes. Please note that it is the data from Building Momentum:
 Projections and Priorities 2009 that were adopted by the ABAG Executive Board and are the official
 numbers (our latest forecast) ­ not the data from the Projections 2009: What If? document.
                                                                      1
To answer your questions regarding the Projections 2009: What If? document:

In the first scenario, Scattered Success, we assume local and regional policymakers make limited progress in
developing more transportation-efficient projects. Thousands of additional acres of low density, auto-
dependent, single-use neighborhoods are still being added to our urban-footprint. Transit remains unavailable
in many parts of the region and walking is nearly impossible in many places. This means that the majority of
people will continue to drive to their daily destinations. Consequently, under this scenario, we project that the
transportation-related carbon emissions will go up.

In the second scenario, Focused Future, we assume that local governments approve more development and
redevelopment around the light- and heavy-rail stations, bus stops and ferry terminals. We also assume that
transportation services will be extended and improved with seamless connections. Existing, autodependent
suburbs will be transformed into walkable downtowns and mixed-use neighborhoods, where more housing
and businesses will locate. Walking, biking and transit use are projected to be the norm. As a result, we
forecast that transportation-related carbon emissions will go down.

The Projections 2009: What If? document goes into details regarding these two scenarios: Scattered Success
and Focused Future. I'm sure you've already obtained this document since you are referring to it. However,
if you do not have it yet, it can be downloaded at www.abag.ca.gov/rss/pdfs/whatif.pdf.

Attached are the data of San Mateo County for the two scenarios from the Projections 2009: What if? in PDF
format. I've also attached a spreadsheet that contains Pacifica, Half Moon Bay, and Half Moon Bay
Unincorporated (area between Pacifica and Half Moon Bay). In that spreadsheet, there is a graph which
shows the population differences between the two scenarios.

There are no specific write-ups for the Pacifica and Half Moon Bay areas. However, here is something for
San Mateo County as a whole:

In San Mateo County, more growth is projected to occur under the Focused alternative. Nearly 900,000
people are projected to live in San Mateo County ­ over 137,000 more people under Scattered and 160,000 in
the Focused Future alternative. There are also more jobs in the county in each scenario; over 165,000 more
jobs in Scattered and 157,000 jobs in Focused. The differences in the scenarios are mostly at the city level.
Relatively more growth is directed to communities along El Camino Real, near the train stations and job
centers under Focused than in Scattered Success. For example, the City of San Mateo and Redwood City is
where most of San Mateo County's new development takes place. Most of this development is projected to
take place in each city's downtown and along the rail corridor adjacent to El Camino Real, such as near the
Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain stations in the City of San Mateo. The Bay Meadows race track is also
projected to be redeveloped into a place of relatively higher density homes, retail stores and restaurants.
Downtown Redwood City, where the city and county civic centers are located, is projected to continue its
transformation into a vibrant, pedestrian friendly area, with residential buildings, some as high as 8 stories,
shops, restaurants, cultural venues and an active public square.

In summary, population will increase at a slower pace for Pacifica, Half Moon Bay, and Half Moon Bay
Unincorporated in the Focused Future scenario. This is not surprising due to the lack of transportation
options in that area.

If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me.

Hing Wong,     AICP

Senior Regional Planner, Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG)
                                                                      2
P.O. Box 2050, Oakland, CA 94604-2050
     510.464.7966   |   510.433.5566    |   hingw@abag.ca.gov




                                                                3
Population                       SS2010    SS2035          FF2010     FF2035
Half Moon Bay                     12,900    15,800          12,900     13,905
Pacifica                          39,100    43,500          39,100     39,827
Half Moon Bay Unincorporated      11,600    12,900          11,600     11,772



                                           Population Increase Between


                               4,500

                               4,000

                               3,500
                               3,000

                               2,500

                               2,000

                               1,500

                               1,000

                                500
                                  0
                                           Half Moon Bay             Pacifica
                  SSChange FFChange
       Half Moon Bay 2,900        1,005
       Pacifica       4,400         727
       Half Moon Bay Unincorporated
                      1,300         172



ease Between 2010 and 2035




                                          SSChange
                                          FFChange




Pacifica          Half Moon Bay
                  Unincorporated
        APPENDIX I



TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORTATION
       APPENDIX I­1

TRAFFIC IMPACT REPORT, RKH
      FEBRUARY 2011
          Civil and Transportation Engineering




                             DRAFT

                    TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS

                    ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                     PACIFICA, CALIFORNIA

                        September 4, 2009
                     Revised February 24, 2011




                             Prepared for -
                            JC Engineering
                      225 Rockaway Beach Avenue
                               Suite 400
                          Pacifica, CA 94044




837 Columba Lane · Foster City, CA 94404 · (650)212-0837 · FAX(650)212-3150
                                                Table of Contents
Section                                                                                                                           Page

1.   Introduction.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

2.   Existing Conditions.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

3.   Background Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

4.   Project Conditions.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

5.   Cumulative Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

6.   Site Access and Circulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

7.   Conclusions and Recommendations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25


Appendices

A.   Traffic Count Data
B.   Levels of Service Calculation Worksheets
C.   Traffic Analysis Worksheets




                                                                    ii
                                                      List of Figures
Figure                                                                                                                              Page


1.    Location Map. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

2.    Existing Intersection Lane Configurations .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

3.    Existing Peak Hour Traffic Volumes.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

4.    Background Conditions Peak Hour Traffic Volumes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

5.    Project Vehicle Trip Distribution .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

6.    Project Only Peak Hour Traffic Volumes.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

7.    Project Conditions Peak Hour Traffic Volumes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

8.    Near-Term Cumulative Conditions Peak Hour Traffic Volumes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

9.    Cumulative + Project Conditions Peak Hour Traffic Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

10.   Site Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

11.   Corner Sight Distance - Schematic. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

12.   Driveway Corner Sight Distance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23




                                                                     iii
                                                  List of Tables
Table                                                                                                                    Page


A.   Levels of Service Definitions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

B.   Levels of Service - Existing Conditions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

C.   Levels of Service - Background Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

D.   Project Vehicle Trip Generation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

E.   Levels of Service - Project Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

F.   Levels of Service - Near-Term Cumulative Conditions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20




                                                               iv
INTRODUCTION
SECTION 1.
STUDY PURPOSE

The purpose of this study is to quantify and analyze the traffic impacts of a proposed a 141 bed assisted
living facility on Oddstad Boulevard. See Figure 1, Location Map, page 2.

ANALYSIS METHODOLOGIES

Five intersections have been designated for analysis in this study. They are ­
      1) Route 1 & Linda Mar Boulevard/San Pedro Avenue
      2) Route 1 & Fassler Avenue/Rockaway Beach Avenue
      3) Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
      4) Fassler Avenue & Terra Nova Boulevard
      5) Terra Nova Boulevard & Oddstad Boulevard
The Linda Mar Boulevard & Oddstad Boulevard intersection is not included because the major
movements between the two streets are uncontrolled. The five designated study area intersections have
been analyzed according to the methodologies contained in the 2000 edition of the Highway Capacity
Manual. Using the TRAFFIX1 network modeling program a traffic network model was created to
analyze the streets and intersections within the project study area.

ANALYSIS SCENARIOS

Four scenarios have been developed and analyzed in this study.

1.   Existing Conditions. Current (2009) traffic volumes within the study area.

2.   Background Conditions (Existing + Pending Projects). Background traffic is that traffic
     expected to be present at the time the project is ready for occupancy. It consists of existing traffic
     plus traffic to be generated by those developments that are anticipated to be built and occupied by
     the time the project is ready for occupancy.

3.   Project Conditions. (Existing + Project and Existing + Pending + Project) Project trips are
     estimated based on the proposed land use and are then added to Background Conditions traffic in
     order to obtain the Project Conditions traffic scenario. An Existing + Project scenario is also
     included.

4.   Near-Term Cumulative Conditions. (Existing + Pending + Future Development) Cumulative
     traffic is that traffic expected to be present within the next five years. It consists of existing traffic
     plus trips from pending projects plus trips from near-term future development projects within the
     study area. This scenario is analyzed without and with the project.
                                                       1


           1
               Dowling Associates, TRAFFIX 8.0.0715, ©2008
                                                                                                    P
                                                                                              SHAR




                                                                                          1

   Pacific Ocean
                                                                                      REINA DEL MAR AV




                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                    I C
                                                                                              I F
                                                                   FA                     C
                                                                      SSL             A
                                                                           ER     P
                                                                            AV


                                              CR
                                                  ES
                                                    PI                                                  TER
                                                                                                           RA
                                                         DR




                                                                                                              NOV
                                                                                                                 AB
                                                                                                                   L
                                       LIN
                                        DA




Point San Pedro
                                             MA
                                              R
                                              BL




                                   1
                                                                       R
                                                               ED
                                                              OB
                                                              AD




                                                                                                                           L
                                                                                                                         DB
                                                                                                                       TA
                                                                                                                      DS
                                                                                                                  OD




                                                                                 Project Location




      0   500   1000        2000              Study Area Intersection
                                                                                                         LOCATION MAP
            Scale in feet                                          2                                         FIGURE 1
EXISTING CONDITIONS
SECTION 2.

ROADWAY NETWORK

State Route 1. Route 1 through the project study area is a 4-lane, divided highway running
generally north-south through the project study area.

Linda Mar Boulevard. This arterial street is 4-lanes with parking allowed in some areas on
both sides of the street as it approaches Route 1. Further to the east the street narrows to two
lanes with parking.

Fassler Avenue. This street is a 2-4 lane arterial street with no parking allowed on either side of
the street.

Terra Nova Boulevard. Terra Nova Boulevard is a 2-lane arterial street with parking allowed on
both sides of the street.

Oddstad Boulevard. Oddstad Boulevard between Linda Mar Boulevard and Terra Nova
Boulevard is an arterial street with three lanes and parking allowed on one side of the street.


INTERSECTION LANE CONFIGURATIONS

The lane configurations and controls of the five study area intersections are shown on Figure 2,
Existing Intersection Lane Configurations, page 4.


EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUMES

Existing 2009 peak hour traffic volumes through the study area intersections are shown on Figure
3, Existing Peak Hour Traffic Volumes, page 5. Peak hours for purposes of this study are those
that occur between 7 and 9 a.m. and between 4 and 6 p.m. on an average weekday. See
Appendix A for traffic count data.


LEVELS OF SERVICE DEFINED

LOS (Levels of Service) methodologies are described in Section 1. Levels of Service define how
well or how poorly a traffic facility ( a street or an intersection) is operating. There are by
definition six Levels of Service. These definitions are presented in Table A on page 6.



                                                 3
  N                                      N                                                N                                                                     N




                                                                                                                                                                              STOP
                                                                                                                                                                             2-WAY
           6 PHASE, SPLIT                      6 PHASE, SPLIT                                                                6 PHASE, SPLIT




                                1                                           2                                                                       3                                  4




                                                                                           AV
                                                                                                  FRANCISCO BL

                                                                                                                 OCEANA BL
                                                                                          TO
                                                                                                                                                                    N




                                                                                              T
                                                                                        PALME




                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                         ROA
                                                                                                                                                                              STOP
                                                                                                                                                                             ALL-WAY
                                                                                                                                                  PARK
                     RE
                                                                                                                                              P
                        F.                                                                                                             SHAR

                                                                                                                                                                                       5



                                                                                                                                  1

                                Pacific Ocean
                                                                                                                             3   REINA DEL MAR AV




                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                        A
                                                                                                                                              I C
                                                                                                                                      I F
                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                 FA
                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                   SL
                                                                                        ER




                                                                                                                    P
                                                                                          AV




                                                            CR
                                                                ES
                                                                  PI
                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                  TER
                                                                                                                                                     RA
                                                                       DR




                                                   1                                                                                                    NOV
                                                                                                                                                           AB
                                                                                                                                                                L
                                                   LIN
                                                       DA




                             Point San Pedro
                                                         MA
                                                            R
                                                            BL




                                               1
                                                                                  R
                                                                                ED
                                                                            OB
                                                                            AD




                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                       DBL
                                                                                                                                                                    TA
                                                                                                                                                                DS
                                                                                                                                                                OD




NOTE: Intersections are oriented according
to their placement in the TRAFFIX traffic                                                                             INTERSECTION CONFIGURATION
network model. North orientation in TRAFFIX
model is Reference North on this diagram.
                                                                                                                                     AND CONTROL
                                                                            4                                                            FIGURE 2
                                                                                                             779(2291)
                                             565(1541)
 N                                    N                                                      N                                                                     N




       161(483)
       263(740)




                                             193(844)




                                                                                                             78(222)
       41(128)




                                             22(48)
                     489(384)                                   548(268)                                                                   155(104)




                                                                                                             8(9)
                     43(81)                                     13(17)                                 4                                   4(3)                                              7(9)
                     53(127)                                    13(38)                                                                     35(79)                                            2(0)
     75(101)                              39(56)                                                          3(14)                                                         2(10)




                                                                                                                                                                                         458(249)
                                                                                                                                                                                             3(0)
                                                                                                                                            8(18)
                                                                                                                                       1795(1340)
                                                                                                                                           35(79)
                  430(372)
                    76(74)
                     8(14)




                                                             20(31)
                                                          1127(914)
                                                              9(17)
      48(89)                               4(14)                                                           6(6)                                                      124(512)
        2(7)                              28(41)                                                           3(5)


                                1                                                2                                                                        3                                         4




                                                                                               AV
                                                                                                      FRANCISCO BL

                                                                                                                     OCEANA BL
                                                                                                                                                                   N




                                                                                              TO




                                                                                                                                                                              109(100)
                                                                                                                                                                              173(163)
                                                                                                  T
                                                                                            PALME




                                                                                                                                                                              4(13)
                                                                                                                                                                          4




                                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                           ROA
                                                                                                                                                                        43(127)




                                                                                                                                                                                         69(125)
                                                                                                                                                                                         96(208)
                                                                                                                                                                                            0(0)
                                                                                                                                                    PARK                   0(0)
                    RE                                                                                                                                                   35(76)
                                                                                                                                                P
                      F.                                                                                                                   SHAR

                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                    NOTE: Intersections are oriented according
                                                                                                                                                    to their placement in the TRAFFIX traffic
                                                                                                                                                    network model. North orientation in TRAFFIX
                                                                                                                                      1             model is Reference North on this diagram.


                              Pacific Ocean
                                                                                                                                 3   REINA DEL MAR AV




                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                I C
                                                                                                                                          I F
                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                     FA
                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                       SL
                                                                                            ER




                                                                                                                        P
                                                                                              AV




                                                                CR
                                                                    ES
                                                                      PI
                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                    TER
                                                                                                                                                        RA
                                                                           DR




                                                      1                                                                                                    N  OV
                                                                                                                                                                AB
                                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                         LIN
                                                          DA




                           Point San Pedro
                                                               MA
                                                                R
                                                                BL




                                                  1
                                                                                      R
                                                                                    ED
                                                                                OB
                                                                                AD




                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                          BL
                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                       TA
                                                                                                                                                                     DS
                                                                                                                                                                   OD




                  KEY:
000(000) = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes                                                                                                               EXISTING PEAK HOUR
     AM Peak Hour Between 7 and 9 AM
     PM Peak Hour Between 4 and 6 PM                                                                                                                        TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                                5                                                                                    FIGURE 3
                              TABLE A: Levels of Service Definitions
                                  for Signalized Intersections
                                                                                              Control
                                                                                             Delay per
    Level of                                                                                  Vehicle
    Service                               Traffic Flow Conditions                            (sec./veh)
                  Conditions of free flow; speed is controlled by driver's desires,
       A                                                                                        <10
                  stipulated speed limits, or physical roadway conditions.
                  Conditions of stable flow; operating speeds beginning to be restricted;
       B                                                                                      >10-20
                  little or no restrictions on maneuverability from other vehicles.
                  Conditions of stable flow; speeds and maneuverability more closely
       C          restricted; occasional backups behind left-turning vehicles at              >20-35
                  intersections.
                  Conditions approach unstable flow; tolerable speeds can be maintained
                  but temporary restrictions may cause extensive delays; little freedom to
       D          maneuver; comfort and convenience low; at intersections some                >35-55
                  motorists, especially those making left turns, may wait through one or
                  more signal changes.
                  Conditions approach capacity; unstable flow with stoppages of
       E                                                                                      >55-80
                  momentary duration; maneuverability severely limited.
                  Forced flow conditions; stoppages for long periods; low operating
       F                                                                                        >80
                  speeds. Delays at intersections average 60 seconds or more.
Source: Exhibit 16-2, Highway Capacity Manual.


                           TABLE A1: Levels of Service Definitions
                     for 2-Way and All-Way STOP Controlled Intersections
 Level of Service                                     Traffic Conditions
           A           Very low delay, less than or equal to10.0 seconds of average control delay
                       per vehicle.
           B           Average control delay in the range of 10.1 to 15.0 seconds per vehicle
           C           Average control delay in the range of 15.1 to 25.0 seconds per vehicle
           D           Average control delay in the range of 25.1 to 35.0 seconds per vehicle
           E           Average control delay in the range of 35.1 to 50.0 seconds per vehicle
           F           Average control delay in excess of 50 seconds per vehicle.
Reference: Highway Capacity Manual, Chapter 17, HCM2000.



                                                     6
LEVELS OF SERVICE STANDARDS

The San Mateo County Congestion Management Program has set Levels of Service standards for
major roadways and intersections within the County. Route 1 through Pacifica is a designated
CMP roadway. The CMP designated LOS standard for Route 1 in Pacifica is E. While none of
the four study area intersections is a designated CMP intersection, the CMP standards for
intersections on designated CMP roadways is appropriate:

" . . .the (intersection) standard is set to be LOS E to correspond to the standard established for
the adjacent roadway segment."2

For the City of Pacifica the LOS Standard is "D" for all public streets. For signalized
intersections in Pacifica the project is said to create a significant adverse impact on traffic
conditions at the intersection if for any peak hour -

1.      The level of service at the intersection degrades from an acceptable LOS D or better under
        background conditions to an unacceptable LOS E or F under project conditions, or

2.      If the intersection is already operating at an unacceptable LOS E and the addition of project
        traffic causes both the critical movement delay at the intersection to increase by two (2) or
        more seconds and the critical demand-to-capacity (V/C) ratio to increase by more than
        0.010, or

3.      If the intersection is already operating at an unacceptable LOS F and the addition of project
        traffic causes both the critical movement delay at the intersection to increase by one (1) or
        more seconds and the demand-to-capacity (V/C) to increase by more than 0.010.

An exception to this rule applies when the addition of project traffic reduces the amount of
average delay for critical movements (i.e., the change in average delay for critical movements is
negative). In this case the threshold of significance is an increase in the critical V/C value of
more than 0.010.




                                                        7

2
    San Mateo County Congestion Management Program LOS Standard for Intersections, 5.e.
EXISTING CONDITIONS LEVELS OF SERVICE

Levels of Service have been calculated for the existing conditions scenario using the analysis
methods contained in the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual. The results of the LOS calculations
are summarized in Table B below. The calculation worksheets are provided in Appendix B.

The LOS calculations reflect traffic conditions existing in the summer of 2009. Historically the
intersections on Route 1 at Fassler/Rockaway and at Reina Del Mar during the morning peak
hour operated at LOS significantly lower than that shown in Table B below. Time of year and
economic conditions may have contributed to the reduction in total intersection volume from
previous counts and, thus, precipitated an improvement in LOS. A comparison of Route 1
intersection volumes and LOS is provided in Appendix C. The City of Pacifica and the San
Mateo County Transportation Authority are planning on widening Route 1 between Fassler
Avenue/Rockaway Beach Avenue and Reina Del Mar Avenue from four lanes to six lanes. The
project is still in the planning stages of development. Once completed, that project should
significantly reduce the queuing that presently occurs on Route 1in the northbound direction
during the morning peak traffic period.

             TABLE B: Intersection Levels of Service
                     Existing Conditions
         Signalized                     Peak
                                                         V/C       Delay       LOS
        Intersection                    Hour
   1- Route 1 & Linda                    AM             0.438         26.7       C
       Mar Blvd.                         PM             0.581         26.0       C
 2 - Route 1 & Fassler                   AM             0.631         30.0       C
 Ave./ Rockaway Bch.                     PM             0.723         27.2       C
  3 - Route 1 & Reina                    AM             0.703         17.0       B
    Del Mar Avenue                       PM             0.839         22.2       C
    STOP Controlled                 Controlled          Peak
                                                                   Delay       LOS
      Intersections                 Approach            Hour
                                     NB Terra            AM           13.3       B
 4 -Fassler Ave. &
                                      Nova
 Terra Nova Blvd.                                        PM           13.2       B
                                      Blvd.*
 5 - Terra Nova Blvd.                                    AM           8.6        A
                                         All
 & Oddstad Blvd.                                         PM           10.4       B
Delay is average control delay in seconds per vehicle. V/C is critical volume-to-capacity ratio.
 LOS is Level of Service. See Tables A and A1 for definitions.
* The westbound Fassler Avenue approach is also STOP sign controlled, but the HCM 2000 and TRAFFIX modeling programs cannot analyze
an intersection where one of the opposing approaches is not controlled. Because the peak hour volume on the westbound Fassler Avenue
approach is so low, the effect on the LOS of the controlled approach is minimal.




                                                                  8
BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
SECTION 3.

Background Conditions are those traffic conditions which are expected to occur immediately
prior to the completion and occupancy of the proposed subdivision. Traffic from developments
that are approved and/or ones that are expected to be completed and occupied prior to the
proposed project is added to existing traffic volumes to create this traffic analysis scenario.


APPROVED PROJECTS

For purposes of this study there are three projects that could be completed prior to occupancy of
this project. They are:
      1) A mixed use commercial project on Old County Road in the Rockaway Beach area.
      2) A 13 lot, single family detached residential subdivision off of Roberts Road.
      3) A 3,700 sq. ft. restaurant at 4627 Coast Highway near the bowling alley.

Projections of vehicle trip generation for these developments are provided in Appendix C.


BACKGROUND CONDITIONS PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES

Morning and afternoon street peak hour traffic volumes at the five designated intersections are
shown on Figure 4 page 10, for the Background Conditions scenario.


BACKGROUND CONDITIONS LEVELS OF SERVICE

Levels of Service have been calculated for the background conditions scenario using the analysis
methods contained in the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual. The results of the LOS calculations
are summarized in Table C on page 11. The calculation worksheets are provided in Appendix B.




                                                9
                                                                                                             806(2308)
                                             565(1541)
 N                                    N                                                      N                                                                     N




       165(504)
       265(743)




                                             197(853)




                                                                                                             78(222)
       41(128)




                                             45(57)
                     492(388)                                   553(271)                                                                   155(104)




                                                                                                             8(9)
                     43(81)                                     21(20)                                 4                                   4(3)                                              7(9)
                     53(127)                                    18(42)                                                                     35(79)                                            2(0)
     75(101)                              42(101)                                                         3(14)                                                         2(10)




                                                                                                                                                                                         468(255)
                                                                                                                                                                                             3(0)
                                                                                                                                            8(18)
                                                                                                                                       1805(1389)
                                                                                                                                           36(79)
                  442(379)
                    76(74)
                     8(14)




                                                             34(37)
                                                          1130(916)
                                                              9(17)
      48(89)                                5(27)                                                          6(6)                                                      128(526)
        2(7)                               30(68)                                                          3(5)


                                1                                                2                                                                        3                                         4




                                                                                               AV
                                                                                                      FRANCISCO BL

                                                                                                                     OCEANA BL
                                                                                                                                                                   N




                                                                                              TO




                                                                                                                                                                              109(100)
                                                                                                                                                                              173(163)
                                                                                                  T
                                                                                            PALME




                                                                                                                                                                              4(13)
                                                                                                                                                                          4




                                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                           ROA
                                                                                                                                                                        43(127)




                                                                                                                                                                                         69(125)
                                                                                                                                                                                         96(208)
                                                                                                                                                                                            0(0)
                                                                                                                                                    PARK                   0(0)
                    RE                                                                                                                                                   35(76)
                                                                                                                                                P
                      F.                                                                                                                   SHAR

                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                    NOTE: Intersections are oriented according
                                                                                                                                                    to their placement in the TRAFFIX traffic
                                                                                                                                                    network model. North orientation in TRAFFIX
                                                                                                                                      1             model is Reference North on this diagram.


                              Pacific Ocean
                                                                                                                                 3   REINA DEL MAR AV




                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                I C
                                                                                                                                          I F
                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                     FA
                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                       SL
                                                                                            ER




                                                                                                                        P
                                                                                              AV




                                                                CR
                                                                    ES
                                                                      PI
                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                    TER
                                                                                                                                                        RA
                                                                           DR




                                                      1                                                                                                    N  OV
                                                                                                                                                                AB
                                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                         LIN
                                                          DA




                           Point San Pedro
                                                               MA
                                                                R
                                                                BL




                                                  1
                                                                                   R
                                                                                 ED
                                                                                 OB
                                                                                AD




                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                          BL
                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                       TA
                                                                                                                                                                     DS
                                                                                                                                                                   OD




                  KEY:
000(000) = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes                                                                                        BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
     AM Peak Hour Between 7 and 9 AM
     PM Peak Hour Between 4 and 6 PM                                                                                             PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                                10                                                                 FIGURE 4
                                 TABLE C: Intersection Levels of Service
                                       Background Conditions
                                                                                                        Background
                                                              Existing Conditions
          Signalized                        Peak                                                        Conditions
         Intersection                       Hour              V/C         Delay        LOS         V/C     Delay     LOS

   1- Route 1 & Linda                        AM              0.438         26.7          C         0.443   26.7      C
       Mar Blvd.                             PM              0.581         26.0          C         0.584   25.9      C
 2 - Route 1 & Fassler                       AM              0.631         30.0          C         0.638   30.6      C
 Ave./ Rockaway Bch.                         PM              0.723         27.2          C         0.788   32.7      C
   3 - Route 1 & Reina                       AM              0.703         17.0          B         0.706   16.9      B
     Del Mar Avenue                          PM              0.839         22.2          C         0.844   22.4      C
     STOP Controlled                    Controlled            Peak                                 Peak
                                                                          Delay        LOS                 Delay     LOS
       Intersections                    Approach              Hour                                 Hour
 4 -Fassler Ave. &                      NB Terra              AM           13.3          B         AM      13.5      B
 Terra Nova Blvd.                      Nova Blvd.              PM          13.2          B         PM      13.4      B
 5 - Terra Nova Blvd.                                         AM            8.6          A         AM       8.6      B
                                             All
 & Oddstad Blvd.                                               PM          10.4          B         PM      10.4      B
Delay is average control delay in seconds per vehicle. V/C is critical volume-to-capacity ratio.
LOS is Level of Service. See Tables A and A1 for definitions.




Only a slight change in delay or V/C ratio results when approved project trips are added to the
roadway network.




                                                                       11
PROJECT CONDITIONS
SECTION 4.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

The project consists of a 141 bed assisted living facility on a vacant lot on Oddstad Boulevard.


PROJECT VEHICLE TRIP GENERATION

The estimate of vehicle trips to be generated by the project is shown in Table D below. The
estimate is based on data contained in Trip Generation.3 The AM Street Peak Hour is generally
between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. and the PM Street Peak Hour is generally between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m.
A detailed trip generation table can be found in Appendix C.

                               Table D: Project Vehicle Trip Generation
                                                            AM Street Peak Hour         PM Street Peak Hour
           Land Use                   Size      Units          In         Out   Total    In    Out    Total
      Assisted Living                 141       BED          13           7      20     14      17     31


PROJECT VEHICLE TRIP DISTRIBUTION

Project vehicle trips have been distributed on the basis of likely employee and visitor travel
patterns. The assumed vehicle trip distribution is shown on Figure 5, Project Vehicle Trip
Distribution, page 13.


PROJECT PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES

Figure 6, page 14, shows project only peak hour traffic volumes through each of the five study
area intersections. The Project Conditions (Existing + Approved + Project) peak hour traffic
volumes at the five study area intersections are shown on Figure 7, Project Conditions Peak Hour
Traffic Volumes, page 15.




                                                          12

       3
           Institute of Transportation Engineers, 8 th Edition, © 2008.
                                                                                                P
                                                                                          SHAR




                                                                                      1

   Pacific Ocean
                                                                                   REINA DEL MAR AV
                                                                        80%
                                                                        70%



                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                I C
                                                                                          I F
                                                            FA                        C
                                                               S
                                                              SL                  A
                                                                   ER         P
                                                                    AV


                                       CR
                                           ES
                                             PI                                                     TER
                                                                                                       RA
                                                  DR




                                                                                                          NOV
                                                                                                             AB
                                                                                                               L
                                LIN




                                                                          0%
                                 DA




Point San Pedro
                                                                          5%
                                      MA
                                       R
                                       BL




                                                                                                                       0%
                            1                     5%                                                                   5%
                                                  10%
                                                             R
                                                        ED




                        15%
                                                       OB




                        10%
                                                       AD




                                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                                     DB
                                                                                                                   TA
                                                                                                                  DS
                                                                                                              OD




                                                                          Project Location
             KEY
    15% AM Street Peak Hour
    10% PM Street Peak Hour


  Study Area Intersection
                                                                                  VEHICLE TRIP DISTRIBUTION
                                                        13                                         FIGURE 5
 N                                       N                                                   N                                                                            N




                                                10(10)




                                                                                                                                 10(10)
                                                                                                       4
                       1(2)                                     6(12)
                                                                                                                                                                                  10(10)




                                                                                                                                                                                           6(12)
                                                                                                                                          6(12)
                2(1)


                                   1                                             2                                                                                3                                4




                                                                                               AV
                                                                                                      FRANCISCO BL

                                                                                                                     OCEANA BL
                                                                                                                                                                          N




                                                                                              TO  T
                                                                                            PALME




                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                   ROA
                                                                                                                                                                                  10(11)




                                                                                                                                                                                           6(14)
                                                                                                                                                            PARK
                   RE
                                                                                                                                                        P
                        F.                                                                                                                        SHAR

                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                            NOTE: Intersections are oriented according
                                                                                                                                                            to their placement in the TRAFFIX traffic
                                                                                                                                                            network model. North orientation in TRAFFIX
                                                                                                                                          1                 model is Reference North on this diagram.


                                 Pacific Ocean
                                                                                                                                 3   REINA DEL MAR AV




                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                                                        I C
                                                                                                                                                  I F
                                                                                                                                          C
                                                                                     FA
                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                       SL
                                                                                            ER




                                                                                                                        P
                                                                                              AV




                                                                CR
                                                                    ES
                                                                      PI
                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                            TER
                                                                                                                                                               RA
                                                                           DR




                                                    1                                                                                                             N   OV
                                                                                                                                                                        AB
                                                                                                                                                                          L
                                                         LIN
                                                          DA




                              Point San Pedro
                                                               MA
                                                                R
                                                                BL




                                                1
                                                                                   R
                                                                                 ED
                                                                                 OB
                                                                                AD




                                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                                 DBL
                                                                                                                                                                              TA
                                                                                                                                                                             DS
                                                                                                                                                                          OD




                  KEY:
000(000) = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes                                                                                                    PROJECT ONLY
     AM Peak Hour Between 7 and 9 AM
     PM Peak Hour Between 4 and 6 PM                                                                                              PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                                14                                                                  FIGURE 6
                                                                                                             817(2318)
                                             565(1541)
 N                                    N                                                      N                                                                     N




       165(504)
       265(743)




                                             208(862)




                                                                                                             78(222)
       41(128)




                                             45(57)
                     492(388)                                   559(283)                                                                   155(104)




                                                                                                             8(9)
                     43(81)                                     21(20)                                 4                                   4(3)                                              7(9)
                     54(129)                                    18(42)                                                                     35(79)                                            2(0)
     75(101)                              42(101)                                                         3(14)                                                         2(10)




                                                                                                                                                                                         474(266)
                                                                                                                                                                                             3(0)
                                                                                                                                            8(18)
                                                                                                                                       1811(1401)
                                                                                                                                           36(79)
                  442(379)
                    78(75)
                     8(14)




                                                             34(37)
                                                          1130(916)
                                                              9(17)
      48(89)                                5(27)                                                          6(6)                                                      138(536)
        2(7)                               30(68)                                                          3(5)


                                1                                                2                                                                        3                                         4




                                                                                               AV
                                                                                                      FRANCISCO BL

                                                                                                                     OCEANA BL
                                                                                                                                                                   N




                                                                                              TO




                                                                                                                                                                              109(100)
                                                                                                                                                                              173(163)
                                                                                                  T
                                                                                            PALME




                                                                                                                                                                              4(13)
                                                                                                                                                                          4




                                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                           ROA
                                                                                                                                                                        43(127)




                                                                                                                                                                                         75(139)
                                                                                                                                                                                         96(208)
                                                                                                                                                                                            0(0)
                                                                                                                                                    PARK                   0(0)
                    RE                                                                                                                                                   45(87)
                                                                                                                                                P
                      F.                                                                                                                   SHAR

                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                    NOTE: Intersections are oriented according
                                                                                                                                                    to their placement in the TRAFFIX traffic
                                                                                                                                                    network model. North orientation in TRAFFIX
                                                                                                                                      1             model is Reference North on this diagram.


                              Pacific Ocean
                                                                                                                                 3   REINA DEL MAR AV




                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                I C
                                                                                                                                          I F
                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                     FA
                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                       SL
                                                                                            ER




                                                                                                                        P
                                                                                              AV




                                                                CR
                                                                    ES
                                                                      PI
                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                    TER
                                                                                                                                                        RA
                                                                           DR




                                                      1                                                                                                    N  OV
                                                                                                                                                                AB
                                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                         LIN
                                                          DA




                           Point San Pedro
                                                               MA
                                                                R
                                                                BL




                                                  1
                                                                                   R
                                                                                 ED
                                                                                 OB
                                                                                AD




                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                          BL
                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                       TA
                                                                                                                                                                     DS
                                                                                                                                                                   OD




                  KEY:
000(000) = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes                                                                                             PROJECT CONDITIONS
     AM Peak Hour Between 7 and 9 AM
     PM Peak Hour Between 4 and 6 PM                                                                                             PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                                15                                                                 FIGURE 7
    PROJECT CONDITIONS LEVELS OF SERVICE

    Levels of Service have been calculated for the project conditions scenario using the analysis
    methods contained in the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual. The results of the LOS calculations
    are summarized in Table E below. The calculation worksheets are provided in Appendix B.

    Project generated traffic adds minimally to the delay at some intersections. The increase in delay
    does not significantly worsen the LOS over that of the Background Conditions scenario.

                                           TABLE E: Intersection Levels of Service
                                                   Project Conditions
                                                         Background
                                                                                         Project Conditions          Existing + Project
    Signalized                   Peak                    Conditions
   Intersection                  Hour              V/C        Delay        LOS          V/C        Delay      LOS   V/C     Delay   LOS

 1- Route 1 &                     AM              0.443        26.7          C        0.444            26.7   C     0.439   26.7     C
Linda Mar Blvd.                   PM              0.584        25.9          C        0.586            26.0   C     0.583   26.0     C
  2 - Route 1 &                   AM              0.638        30.6          C        0.641            30.7   C     0.634   30.1     C
  Fassler Ave./
 Rockaway Bch.                    PM              0.788        32.7          C        0.791            32.8   C     0.726   27.3     C
 3 - Route 1 &                    AM              0.706        16.9          B        0.708            16.9   B     0.705   17.0     B
 Reina Del Mar
    Avenue                        PM              0.844        22.4          C        0.847            22.4   C     0.842   22.3     C
STOP Controlled              Controlled           Peak                                 Peak                         Peak
                                                              Delay        LOS                     Delay      LOS           Delay   LOS
  Intersections              Approach             Hour                                 Hour                         Hour
4 -Fassler Ave. &            NB Terra              AM          13.5          B          AM             13.8   B     AM      13.5     B
Terra Nova Blvd.            Nova Blvd.             PM          13.4          B          PM             13.8   B     PM      13.5     B
5 - Terra Nova                                     AM           8.6          B          AM             8.7    A     AM       8.7     A
Blvd. & Oddstad                   All
Blvd.                                              PM          10.4          B          PM             10.5   B     PM      10.5     B
    Delay is average control delay in seconds per vehicle. V/C is critical volume-to-capacity ratio.
    LOS is Level of Service. See Tables A and A1 for definitions.


    Because of a recent California Supreme Court ruling, an Existing + Project scenario must be
    evaluated in traffic impact analyses. This is in addition to the Project scenario which is project
    generated traffic added to the Background scenario traffic (Existing + Pending + Project).




                                                                           16
NEAR-TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
SECTION 5.

CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS SCENARIO

The Cumulative Conditions scenario for purposes of this study are those that are expected to
within the next 3-5 years. The city has identified six developments that could occur subsequent
to the development of this project within this near-term cumulative scenario. They are -

     1)    five single family residential units on Piedmont Avenue
     2)    a 29 unit condominium development on Fassler Avenue, The Prospects
     3)    a 63 unit condominium development on Fassler Avenue at Route 1
     4)    11 single family residential units on Higgins Way
     5)    a seven unit condominium project on Adobe Drive
     6)    a 14 room hotel expansion on Nick Gust Way

Projections of vehicle trip generation are provided in Appendix C.


CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES

The near-term cumulative traffic volumes are shown on Figure 8, Near-Term Cumulative
Conditions Peak Hour Traffic Volumes, page 18, and the Cumulative + Project Conditions Peak
Hour Traffic Volumes, Figure 9, are shown on page 19.


CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS LEVELS OF SERVICE

Levels of Service have been calculated for cumulative conditions scenario using the analysis
methods contained in the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual. The results of the LOS calculations
Are summarized in Table F on page 20.




                                               17
                                                                                                             814(2342)
                                             567(1549)
 N                                    N                                                      N                                                                     N




       168(505)
       267(751)




                                             202(876)




                                                                                                             79(224)
       41(128)




                                             48(60)
                     497(395)                                   580(282)                                                                   157(105)




                                                                                                             8(9)
                     43(81)                                     21(21)                                 4                                   4(3)                                              7(9)
                     53(127)                                    19(44)                                                                     37(80)                                            2(0)
     75(101)                              47(105)                                                         3(14)                                                         2(10)




                                                                                                                                                                                         469(255)
                                                                                                                                                                                             3(0)
                                                                                                                                            8(18)
                                                                                                                                       1837(1407)
                                                                                                                                           42(80)
                  443(382)
                    76(75)
                     8(14)




                                                             35(37)
                                                          1135(921)
                                                              9(20)
      48(89)                                5(29)                                                          6(6)                                                      131(526)
        2(7)                               31(69)                                                          3(5)


                                1                                                2                                                                        3                                         4




                                                                                               AV
                                                                                                      FRANCISCO BL

                                                                                                                     OCEANA BL
                                                                                                                                                                   N




                                                                                              TO




                                                                                                                                                                              109(100)
                                                                                                                                                                              173(163)
                                                                                                  T
                                                                                            PALME




                                                                                                                                                                              4(13)
                                                                                                                                                                          4




                                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                           ROA
                                                                                                                                                                        43(127)




                                                                                                                                                                                         70(125)
                                                                                                                                                                                         96(208)
                                                                                                                                                                                            0(0)
                                                                                                                                                    PARK                   0(0)
                    RE                                                                                                                                                   35(76)
                                                                                                                                                P
                      F.                                                                                                                   SHAR

                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                    NOTE: Intersections are oriented according
                                                                                                                                                    to their placement in the TRAFFIX traffic
                                                                                                                                                    network model. North orientation in TRAFFIX
                                                                                                                                      1             model is Reference North on this diagram.


                              Pacific Ocean
                                                                                                                                 3   REINA DEL MAR AV




                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                I C
                                                                                                                                          I F
                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                     FA
                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                       SL
                                                                                            ER




                                                                                                                        P
                                                                                              AV




                                                                CR
                                                                    ES
                                                                      PI
                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                    TER
                                                                                                                                                        RA
                                                                           DR




                                                      1                                                                                                    N  OV
                                                                                                                                                                AB
                                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                         LIN
                                                          DA




                           Point San Pedro
                                                               MA
                                                                R
                                                                BL




                                                  1
                                                                                   R
                                                                                 ED
                                                                                OB
                                                                                AD




                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                          BL
                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                       TA
                                                                                                                                                                     DS
                                                                                                                                                                   OD




                  KEY:
000(000) = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes                                        NEAR TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
     AM Peak Hour Between 7 and 9 AM
     PM Peak Hour Between 4 and 6 PM                                                     PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                                18                         FIGURE 8
                                                                                                             824(2352)
                                             567(1549)
 N                                    N                                                      N                                                                     N




       168(505)
       267(751)




                                             212(886)




                                                                                                             79(224)
       41(128)




                                             48(60)
                     497(395)                                   586(294)                                                                   157(105)




                                                                                                             8(9)
                     43(81)                                     21(21)                                 4                                   4(3)                                              7(9)
                     55(129)                                    19(44)                                                                     37(80)                                            2(0)
     75(101)                              47(105)                                                         3(14)                                                         2(10)




                                                                                                                                                                                         474(266)
                                                                                                                                                                                             3(0)
                                                                                                                                            8(18)
                                                                                                                                       1842(1418)
                                                                                                                                           42(80)
                  443(382)
                    78(76)
                     8(14)




                                                             35(37)
                                                          1135(921)
                                                              9(20)
      48(89)                                5(29)                                                          6(6)                                                      141(536)
        2(7)                               31(69)                                                          3(5)


                                1                                                2                                                                        3                                         4




                                                                                               AV
                                                                                                      FRANCISCO BL

                                                                                                                     OCEANA BL
                                                                                                                                                                   N




                                                                                              TO




                                                                                                                                                                              109(100)
                                                                                                                                                                              173(163)
                                                                                                  T
                                                                                            PALME




                                                                                                                                                                              4(13)
                                                                                                                                                                          4




                                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                           ROA
                                                                                                                                                                        43(127)




                                                                                                                                                                                         75(139)
                                                                                                                                                                                         96(208)
                                                                                                                                                                                            0(0)
                                                                                                                                                    PARK                   0(0)
                    RE                                                                                                                                                   46(87)
                                                                                                                                                P
                      F.                                                                                                                   SHAR

                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                    NOTE: Intersections are oriented according
                                                                                                                                                    to their placement in the TRAFFIX traffic
                                                                                                                                                    network model. North orientation in TRAFFIX
                                                                                                                                      1             model is Reference North on this diagram.


                              Pacific Ocean
                                                                                                                                 3   REINA DEL MAR AV




                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                I C
                                                                                                                                          I F
                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                     FA
                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                       SL
                                                                                            ER




                                                                                                                        P
                                                                                              AV




                                                                CR
                                                                    ES
                                                                      PI
                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                    TER
                                                                                                                                                        RA
                                                                           DR




                                                      1                                                                                                    N  OV
                                                                                                                                                                AB
                                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                         LIN
                                                          DA




                           Point San Pedro
                                                               MA
                                                                R
                                                                BL




                                                  1
                                                                                   R
                                                                                 ED
                                                                                OB
                                                                                AD




                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                          BL
                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                       TA
                                                                                                                                                                     DS
                                                                                                                                                                   OD




                  KEY:
000(000) = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes                                        CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
     AM Peak Hour Between 7 and 9 AM
     PM Peak Hour Between 4 and 6 PM                                                    PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                                19                        FIGURE 9
                                 TABLE F: Intersection Levels of Service
                                       Cumulative Conditions
                                                                     Near- Term
                                                                                                   Cumulative + Project
                                                                     Cumulative
          Signalized                        Peak                                                      Conditions
                                                                     Conditions
         Intersection                       Hour
                                                              V/C         Delay        LOS         V/C     Delay   LOS

   1- Route 1 & Linda                        AM              0.446         26.7          C         0.447   26.7     C
       Mar Blvd.                             PM              0.588         25.9          C         0.590   26.0     C
 2 - Route 1 & Fassler                       AM              0.655         31.5          C         0.657   31.6     C
 Ave./ Rockaway Bch.                         PM              0.806         33.6          C         0.809   33.6     C
   3 - Route 1 & Reina                       AM              0.721         17.3          B         0.722   17.2     B
     Del Mar Avenue                          PM              0.856         22.9          C         0.859   23.1     C
     STOP Controlled                    Controlled            Peak                                 Peak
                                                                          Delay        LOS                 Delay   LOS
       Intersections                    Approach              Hour                                 Hour
 4 -Fassler Ave. &                      NB Terra              AM           13.6          B         AM      13.8     B
 Terra Nova Blvd.                      Nova Blvd.              PM          13.4          B         PM      13.8     B
 5 - Terra Nova Blvd.                                         AM            8.6          A         AM       8.7     A
                                             All
 & Oddstad Blvd.                                               PM          10.4          B         PM      10.5     B
Delay is average control delay in seconds per vehicle. V/C is critical volume-to-capacity ratio.
LOS is Level of Service. See Tables A and A1 for definitions.


Project generated traffic adds minimally to the delay at some intersections. The increase in delay
does not significantly worsen the LOS over that of the Near-Term Cumulative Conditions
scenario.




                                                                       20
SITE ACCESS, CIRCULATION AND PARKING
SECTION 6.

SITE PLAN

The assisted living facility is shown on Figure 10, Site Plan, page 22.


SITE ACCESS

Access to the site will be from Oddstad Boulevard. At this location the street is 52 feet wide
with parking allowed on the west side (project side). Driveway corner sight distance is good in
both directions. However, site development could restrict sight distance. As shown in Figure 11
below, the area within the sight triangles should be free of obstructions.




                                                             Corner Sight Distance
                                                                         Figure 11

While Figure 11 above presents a schematic diagram of the corner sight triangles, Figure 12,
page 23, shows the actual driveway corner sight triangles for the facility on Oddstad Boulevard.
In the southbound direction the desired corner sight distance may not be achievable because the
adjacent property is not a part of the project. However, the minimum stopping sight distance of
200 feet appears to be achievable with parking in front of the project site prohibited.

Left turn movements into the site will operate at LOS A during the peak street traffic hours of a
typical weekday. Traffic exiting the site during these same peak hours will operate at LOS B.
The LOS calculation sheets are provided in Appendix B. There is not enough traffic making a
left turn off of Oddstad Boulevard to warrant the installation of a separate left turn lane. Traffic
making a left turn into the site will do so from the northbound through lane.




                                                 21
     SITE PLAN
22   FIGURE 10
                           KEY:
                           DESIRABLE SIGHT DISTANCE, 330 FT. FOR 30 MPH
                           APPROACH SPEED.


                           MINIMUM SIGHT DISTANCE, 200 FT.


0   50         100   150


    Scale in Feet
                                 DRIVEWAY CORNER SIGHT DISTANCE
                              23                       FIGURE 12
CIRCULATION

Within the site there are roadways without adjacent parking. These 2-way aisle ways should be
not less than 22 feet in width. Where aisle ways are adjacent to perpendicular parking spaces the
aisle ways should be not less than 25 feet in width.


PARKING

The project proposes to provide 75 parking spaces, 37 surface parking spaces and 38 spaces in a
below ground level garage. According to data contained in Parking Generation4 a 141 bed
assisted living facility could expect the peak parking demand to be on the order of 41 spaces on
an average weekday and 38 spaces on a Saturday. The project appears to be over parked.




                                                        24


       4
           Institute of Transportation Engineers, Third Edition, © 2004
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
SECTION 7.

CONCLUSIONS

The 141 bed Oddstad Assisted Living Facility is estimated to generate 20 new vehicle trips
during the morning peak hour and 31 new vehicle trips during the afternoon peak traffic hour.
The project will not create a significant impact at any of the five study area intersections.

RECOMMENDATIONS

Off-site:

None.

On-site:

1)   Within the corner sight triangles and the street there should be no fencing or signs that
     would obstruct visibility. Trees should be planted so as to not create a "wall" effect when
     viewed at a shallow angle. The type of shrubbery planted within the triangles should such
     that it will grow no higher than three feet above the adjacent roadway surface. Trees
     planted within the sight triangle areas should be large enough that the lowest limbs are at
     least seven feet above the surface of the adjacent roadway.




Richard K. Hopper, P.E., PTOE
Principal




                                               25
                APPENDICES
           A. Traffic Count Data
B. Levels of Service Calculation Worksheets
      C. Traffic Analysis Worksheets
A. Traffic Count Worksheets
                                                                            Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                               P.O. Box 4205
                                                                                           San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                                           Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Highway 1 & Linda Mar Blvd                                                                                            File Name             : Highway 1 & Linda Mar AM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                                               Site Code             : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                                           Start Date            : 7/30/2009
                                                                                                                                    Page No               :1


                                                                                            Groups Printed- Class 1
                        Highway 1                                                  Linda Mar Blvd                             Highway 1                                 Linda Mar Blvd
                        From North                                                   From East                               From South                                   From West
Start Time      Rght   Thru    Left                         App. Total     Rght     Thru    Left App. Total  Rght            Thru   Left   App. Total    Rght            Thru    Left                      App. Total   Int. Total
   07:00 AM        5     30     26                                    61    121        2     11       134      14              90      5        109         3              10     14                              27        331
   07:15 AM        4     36     39                                    79    118        4       9      131      15              98      2        115         0               5     17                              22        347
   07:30 AM        4     49     39                                    92    136        3       6      145      18              98      0        116         1               3     16                              20        373
   07:45 AM       12     41     45                                    98    162        5     12       179      15             116      2        133         1               4     19                              24        434
        Total     25    156    149                                   330    537       14     38       589      62             402      9        473         5              22     66                              93       1485

   08:00 AM       9     41                          65               115    141        8      11          160         17     106      2         125                 2             10                 15          27         427
   08:15 AM       9     40                          56               105    103       15      19          137         13     102      4         119                 0             12                 22          34         395
   08:30 AM       8     33                          62               103    128       15       9          152         25     100      0         125                 0             10                 21          31         411
   08:45 AM      15     47                          80               142    117        5      14          136         21     122      2         145                 0             16                 17          33         456
        Total    41    161                         263               465    489       43      53          585         76     430      8         514                 2             48                 75         125        1689

 Grand Total      66    317                    412                   795   1026       57      91        1174         138      832     17        987            7            70                      141         218        3174
   Apprch %      8.3   39.9                   51.8                          87.4     4.9     7.8                       14    84.3    1.7                     3.2          32.1                     64.7
     Total %     2.1     10                     13                    25    32.3     1.8     2.9           37         4.3    26.2    0.5       31.1          0.2           2.2                       4.4         6.9


                                                                                                        Highway 1
                                                                                               Out          In       Total
                                                                                               1999          795      2794


                                                                                                     66  317         412
                                                                                                   Rght Thru        Left
                                            358
                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                                         620
                                                          141




                                                                                                                                                        Rght Thru
                                                                                                                                                        1026
                                                         Left




                                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                                                            Linda Mar Blvd
                            Linda Mar Blvd

                                    218


                                                                70
                                                         Rght Thru
                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                 1174
                                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                              7/30/2009 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                               57




                                                                                              7/30/2009 08:45 AM
                                                            7




                                                                                                                                                        Left
                          140




                                                                                              Class 1
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                          91


                                                                                                                                                                                           1794




                                                                                                   Left Thru Rght
                                                                                                     17  832  138


                                                                                                415          987      1402
                                                                                               Out          In       Total
                                                                                                        Highway 1
                                                                 Traffic Research Associates
                                                                           P.O. Box 4205
                                                                       San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                       Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Highway 1 & Linda Mar Blvd                                                                     File Name              : Highway 1 & Linda Mar AM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                        Site Code              : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                    Start Date             : 7/30/2009
                                                                                                             Page No                :2


                              Highway 1                    Linda Mar Blvd                              Highway 1                                  Linda Mar Blvd
                              From North                     From East                                From South                                    From West
    Start Time     Rght     Thru      Left App. Total Rght  Thru    Left          App. Total   Rght   Thru   Left    App. Total     Rght           Thru    Left                     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
     08:00 AM           9      41      65         115  141      8     11               160       17   106       2         125                 2             10                15           27         427
     08:15 AM           9      40      56         105  103     15     19               137       13   102       4         119           0                   12                22           34         395
     08:30 AM           8      33      62         103  128     15      9               152       25   100        0        125           0                   10                 21         31          411
     08:45 AM          15       47     80         142  117      5     14               136       21   122        2        145           0                    16                17         33          456
 Total Volume          41     161     263         465  489     43     53               585       76    430       8        514           2              48                      75        125        1689
  % App. Total        8.8    34.6    56.6             83.6    7.4    9.1                       14.8   83.7     1.6                    1.6            38.4                      60
           PHF      .683     .856    .822        .819 .867  .717   .697               .914     .760   .881   .500        .886       .250             .750                    .852       .919         .926

                                                                                    Highway 1
                                                                            Out         In    Total
                                                                             994         465   1459


                                                                                   41  161      263
                                                                                 Rght Thru     Left




                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                                              217
                                             Total




                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                   387
                                                       75




                                                                                                                                  Rght Thru
                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                   489
                                                                                       North


                                                                                                                                                      Linda Mar Blvd
                              Linda Mar Blvd

                                     125


                                                            48
                                                     Rght Thru
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                             585
                                                                                                                                         43




                                                                       Class 1
                                                        2




                                                                                                                                  Left
                              92
                            Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                                                                    53


                                                                                                                                                                      972




                                                                                 Left Thru Rght
                                                                                     8 430   76


                                                                             216         514    730
                                                                            Out         In    Total
                                                                                    Highway 1
                                                                            Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                               P.O. Box 4205
                                                                                           San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                                           Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Highway 1 & Linda Mar Blvd                                                                                            File Name             : Highway 1 & Linda Mar PM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                                               Site Code             : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                                           Start Date            : 7/23/2009
                                                                                                                                    Page No               :1


                                                                                            Groups Printed- Class 1
                        Highway 1                                                  Linda Mar Blvd                             Highway 1                                 Linda Mar Blvd
                        From North                                                   From East                               From South                                   From West
Start Time      Rght   Thru    Left                         App. Total      Rght    Thru    Left App. Total  Rght            Thru   Left   App. Total    Rght            Thru    Left                     App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM       32    111    155                                    298     99      20     30       149      18              93    16         127         2              21     31                            54         628
   04:15 PM       26    113    178                                    317    100      24     22       146      21              94      2        117         1              16     26                            43         623
   04:30 PM       39    106    167                                    312     98      21     22       141      16              86      3        105         1              19     39                            59         617
   04:45 PM       29     99    193                                    321    116      21     30       167      18              80      4        102         1              23     23                            47         637
        Total    126    429    693                                   1248    413      86    104       603      73             353    25         451         5              79    119                           203        2505

   05:00 PM      27    133                         170                330    88       22     38           148         23     100      3         126                 3             24                25          52         656
   05:15 PM      25    113                         214                352    91       17     33           141         19      95      3         117                 1             18                21          40         650
   05:30 PM      35    116                         169                320   106       16     30           152         13      94      7         114                 1             22                29          52         638
   05:45 PM      41    121                         187                349    99       26     26           151         19      83      1         103                 2             25                26          53         656
        Total   128    483                         740               1351   384       81    127           592         74     372     14         460                 7             89               101         197        2600

 Grand Total    254     912                 1433                     2599    797    167      231        1195         147      725     39        911           12             168                   220         400        5105
   Apprch %      9.8   35.1                  55.1                           66.7      14    19.3                    16.1     79.6    4.3                       3               42                    55
     Total %       5   17.9                  28.1                    50.9   15.6     3.3      4.5        23.4         2.9    14.2    0.8       17.8          0.2              3.3                   4.3         7.8


                                                                                                        Highway 1
                                                                                               Out          In       Total
                                                                                               1742        2599       4341


                                                                                                     254  912       1433
                                                                                                    Rght Thru       Left
                                            860
                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                        1748
                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                          220




                                                                                                                                                        Rght Thru
                                                         Left




                                                                                                                                                         797




                                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                                                            Linda Mar Blvd
                            Linda Mar Blvd

                                    400


                                                               168
                                                         Rght Thru
                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                 1195
                                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                              167




                                                                                              7/23/2009 04:00 PM
                                                                                              7/23/2009 05:45 PM
                                                           12




                                                                                                                                                        Left
                          460




                                                                                                                                                         231




                                                                                              Class 1
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                           2943




                                                                                                    Left Thru Rght
                                                                                                      39  725  147


                                                                                               1155          911      2066
                                                                                               Out          In       Total
                                                                                                        Highway 1
                                                                 Traffic Research Associates
                                                                           P.O. Box 4205
                                                                       San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                       Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Highway 1 & Linda Mar Blvd                                                                     File Name             : Highway 1 & Linda Mar PM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                        Site Code             : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                    Start Date            : 7/23/2009
                                                                                                             Page No               :2


                              Highway 1                    Linda Mar Blvd                              Highway 1                                 Linda Mar Blvd
                              From North                     From East                                From South                                   From West
    Start Time     Rght     Thru      Left App. Total Rght  Thru    Left          App. Total   Rght   Thru   Left   App. Total     Rght           Thru    Left                     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
     05:00 PM          27     133     170         330   88    22     38                148       23   100      3         126                 3             24                25           52         656
     05:15 PM          25     113     214         352   91    17     33                141       19     95     3         117           1                   18                21           40        650
     05:30 PM          35     116     169         320  106    16     30                152       13     94     7         114           1                   22                29           52        638
     05:45 PM          41     121     187         349   99    26     26                151       19     83      1        103           2                    25                26          53        656
 Total Volume        128      483     740       1351   384    81    127                592       74    372     14        460           7              89                     101        197        2600
  % App. Total        9.5    35.8    54.8             64.9  13.7   21.5                        16.1   80.9      3                    3.6            45.2                    51.3
           PHF      .780     .908    .864        .960 .906  .779   .836               .974     .804   .930   .500       .913       .583             .890                    .871       .929         .991

                                                                                    Highway 1
                                                                            Out         In    Total
                                                                             857       1351    2208


                                                                                  128  483      740
                                                                                 Rght Thru     Left




                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                                              420
                                             Total




                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                  903
                                                      101




                                                                                                                                 Rght Thru
                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                  384
                                                                                       North


                                                                                                                                                     Linda Mar Blvd
                              Linda Mar Blvd

                                     197


                                                            89
                                                     Rght Thru
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                            592
                                                                                                                                        81




                                                                       Class 1
                                                        7




                                                                                                                                 Left
                             223




                                                                                                                                  127
                            Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                    1495




                                                                                 Left Thru Rght
                                                                                   14  372   74


                                                                             617         460   1077
                                                                            Out         In    Total
                                                                                    Highway 1
                                                                        Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                          P.O. Box 4205
                                                                                      San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                                      Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Highway 1 & Fassler Ave                                                                                                File Name                  : Highway 1 & Fassler AM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                                                Site Code                  : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                                            Start Date                 : 7/31/2009
                                                                                                                                     Page No                    :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         Highway 1                                             Fassler Ave                              Highway 1                                  Fassler Ave
                         From North                                             From East                              From South                                   From West
Start Time      Right   Thru    Left                  App. Total       Right   Thru     Left App. Total Right         Thru    Left    App. Total   Right           Thru     Left             App. Total   Int. Total
   07:00 AM         4     82     19                              105    119       3       1       123       0          311       5        316          3              1      15                     19        563
   07:15 AM         1     90     19                              110    133       4       3       140       0          296       2        298          1              3       9                     13        561
   07:30 AM         7    114     20                              141    140       3       2       145       0          327       6        333          3              0       3                      6        625
   07:45 AM         3    125     33                              161    135       2       1       138       1          289       5        295          0              0       6                      6        600
        Total      15    411     91                              517    527      12       7       546       1         1223     18        1242          7              4      33                     44       2349

   08:00 AM        5    129                  51                  185    127       2       5          134        0      263      5         268               4                1          9           14        601
   08:15 AM        3    132                  42                  177    144       1       3          148        2      302      5         309               4                1          4            9        643
   08:30 AM        3    142                  47                  192    158       2       2          162        4      271      4         279              13                2         15           30        663
   08:45 AM       11    162                  53                  226    119       8       3          130        3      291      6         300               7                0         11           18        674
        Total     22    565                 193                  780    548      13      13          574        9     1127     20        1156              28                4         39           71       2581

 Grand Total       37    976             284                    1297   1075      25      20       1120         10     2350      38       2398           35               8              72        115        4930
   Apprch %       2.9   75.3            21.9                              96    2.2     1.8                   0.4        98    1.6                    30.4               7            62.6
     Total %      0.8   19.8              5.8                   26.3    21.8    0.5     0.4        22.7       0.2      47.7    0.8        48.6         0.7             0.2             1.5         2.3


                                                                                                 Highway 1
                                                                                          Out        In       Total
                                                                                          3497      1297       4794


                                                                                                 37  976      284
                                                                                              Right Thru     Left
                                215
                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                                   302
                                                    72




                                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                   1075
                                                  Left




                                                                                                     North
                                                                                                                                                                  Fassler Ave
                              Fassler Ave

                                     115


                                                            8
                                                  Right Thru
                                    In




                                                                                                                                                                     1120
                                                                                                                                                                      In




                                                                                         7/31/2009 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                           25




                                                                                         7/31/2009 08:45 AM
                                                     35




                                                                                                                                                   Left
                           100




                                                                                         Unshifted
                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                     20


                                                                                                                                                                              1422




                                                                                              Left Thru Right
                                                                                                38 2350    10


                                                                                          1031      2398       3429
                                                                                          Out        In       Total
                                                                                                 Highway 1
                                                            Traffic Research Associates
                                                                      P.O. Box 4205
                                                                  San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                  Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Highway 1 & Fassler Ave                                                                              File Name                  : Highway 1 & Fassler AM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                              Site Code                  : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                          Start Date                 : 7/31/2009
                                                                                                                   Page No                    :2


                              Highway 1                     Fassler Ave                             Highway 1                                      Fassler Ave
                              From North                     From East                             From South                                       From West
    Start Time Right Thru             Left App. Total Right Thru     Left     App. Total   Right   Thru   Left      App. Total   Right             Thru     Left             App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
     08:00 AM           5     129      51         185   127     2       5          134         0    263       5          268                  4              1           9          14         601
     08:15 AM           3     132      42         177   144     1       3          148         2    302       5          309                  4              1           4           9         643
     08:30 AM           3     142      47         192   158     2       2          162         4     271      4         279              13                  2         15           30         663
     08:45 AM          11     162      53         226   119     8       3          130         3     291      6         300            7                0               11          18         674
 Total Volume          22     565     193         780   548    13      13          574         9   1127       20       1156           28                4               39          71       2581
  % App. Total        2.8    72.4    24.7              95.5   2.3     2.3                    0.8    97.5     1.7                    39.4              5.6             54.9
           PHF      .500     .872    .910        .863  .867 .406    .650          .886     .563     .933   .833         .935        .538            .500              .650       .592         .957

                                                                                Highway 1
                                                                       Out          In    Total
                                                                       1714          780   2494


                                                                            22  565         193
                                                                         Right Thru        Left




                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                  126
                                 Total




                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                   206
                                                39




                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                              Left




                                                                                                                                   548
                                                                                   North
                                Fassler Ave




                                                                                                                                                  Fassler Ave
                                        71


                                                        4
                                              Right Thru
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                       574
                                                                                                                                         13




                                                                  Unshifted
                                                 28




                                                                                                                                 Left
                              55
                            Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                   13


                                                                                                                                                               780




                                                                            Left Thru Right
                                                                              20 1127     9


                                                                        606        1156    1762
                                                                       Out          In    Total
                                                                                Highway 1
                                                                        Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                          P.O. Box 4205
                                                                                      San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                                      Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Highway 1 & Fassler Ave                                                                                               File Name                  : Highway 1 & Fassler PM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                                               Site Code                  : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                                           Start Date                 : 8/3/2009
                                                                                                                                    Page No                    :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         Highway 1                                             Fassler Ave                             Highway 1                                  Fassler Ave
                         From North                                             From East                             From South                                   From West
Start Time      Right   Thru    Left                   App. Total      Right   Thru     Left App. Total Right         Thru   Left    App. Total   Right           Thru     Left              App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM        15    322    130                              467      45      5       9         59      9          214      8        231         11              3      17                     31         788
   04:15 PM        17    407    167                              591      62      1       5         68      5          276      8        289         10              4      16                     30         978
   04:30 PM        16    353    142                              511      64      1       6         71      2          243      8        253          8              9      15                     32         867
   04:45 PM        10    372    163                              545      59      8       8         75      3          216      8        227         15              6      14                     35         882
        Total      58   1454    602                             2114    230      15      28       273      19          949    32        1000         44             22      62                    128        3515

   05:00 PM       15     364                 195                 574     62       6       3            71       8      210     6          224              3             2              9          14         883
   05:15 PM       12     331                 209                 552     59       5      15            79       2      220     9          231             11            10             20          41         903
   05:30 PM       14     445                 217                 676     65       4      12            81       3      264     6          273             13             0             15          28        1058
   05:45 PM        7     401                 223                 631     82       2       8            92       4      220    10          234             14             2             12          28         985
        Total     48    1541                 844                2433    268      17      38           323      17      914    31          962             41            14             56         111        3829

 Grand Total     106    2995           1446                     4547    498      32      66           596      36     1863     63       1962           85            36               118         239        7344
   Apprch %       2.3    65.9           31.8                           83.6     5.4    11.1                   1.8        95   3.2                    35.6          15.1              49.4
     Total %      1.4    40.8           19.7                    61.9     6.8    0.4     0.9           8.1     0.5      25.4   0.9        26.7         1.2           0.5                1.6         3.3


                                                                                                 Highway 1
                                                                                          Out        In       Total
                                                                                          2479      4547       7026


                                                                                                106 2995     1446
                                                                                              Right Thru     Left
                                 440
                                Total




                                                                                                                                                                 1518
                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                    118




                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                                   Left




                                                                                                                                                    498




                                                                                                   North
                                                                                                                                                                 Fassler Ave
                               Fassler Ave

                                      239


                                                           36
                                                   Right Thru
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                     In




                                                                                          8/3/2009 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                      596
                                                                                                                                                          32




                                                                                          8/3/2009 05:45 PM
                                                      85




                                                                                                                                                  Left
                            201




                                                                                          Unshifted
                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                                    66


                                                                                                                                                                             2114




                                                                                              Left Thru Right
                                                                                                63 1863    36


                                                                                          3146      1962       5108
                                                                                          Out        In       Total
                                                                                                 Highway 1
                                                            Traffic Research Associates
                                                                           P.O. Box 4205
                                                                       San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                       Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Highway 1 & Fassler Ave                                                                                  File Name                  : Highway 1 & Fassler PM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                                  Site Code                  : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                              Start Date                 : 8/3/2009
                                                                                                                       Page No                    :2


                              Highway 1                        Fassler Ave                               Highway 1                                   Fassler Ave
                              From North                        From East                               From South                                    From West
    Start Time Right Thru             Left App. Total Right    Thru     Left       App. Total   Right   Thru   Left     App. Total   Right           Thru     Left             App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
     05:00 PM         15      364     195         574    62       6         3             71        8   210       6          224              3                2           9          14         883
     05:15 PM         12      331     209         552    59        5       15             79        2   220       9          231             11            10            20           41         903
     05:30 PM         14      445     217         676    65        4       12             81        3   264       6          273             13          0                15         28        1058
     05:45 PM          7      401     223         631    82        2        8             92        4    220     10          234             14          2                12         28         985
 Total Volume         48 1541         844       2433    268       17       38           323        17    914      31         962          41            14                56        111        3829
  % App. Total         2     63.3    34.7                83      5.3     11.8                     1.8     95     3.2                    36.9          12.6              50.5
           PHF      .800     .866    .946        .900  .817    .708      .633          .878     .531    .866   .775         .881        .732          .350              .700       .677         .905

                                                                                     Highway 1
                                                                            Out          In    Total
                                                                            1238        2433    3671


                                                                                   48 1541       844
                                                                                Right Thru      Left




                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                                   207
                                  Total




                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                     875
                                                 56




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                               Left




                                                                                                                                       268
                                                                                        North
                                 Fassler Ave




                                                                                                                                                    Fassler Ave
                                       111


                                                       14
                                               Right Thru
                                       In




                                                                                                                                                        In
                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                         323
                                                                                                                                             17




                                                                       Unshifted
                                                  41




                                                                                                                                     Left
                               96
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                       38


                                                                                                                                                                1198




                                                                                Left Thru Right
                                                                                  31  914    17


                                                                            1620          962   2582
                                                                            Out          In    Total
                                                                                     Highway 1
                                                                                 Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                                    P.O. Box 4205
                                                                                                San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                                                Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Highway 1 & Reina del Mar                                                                                            File Name         : Highway 1 & Reina del Mar AM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                                              Site Code         : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                                          Start Date        : 7/30/2009
                                                                                                                                   Page No           :1


                                                                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         Highway 1                                                    Reina del Mar Ave                           Highway 1                       Reina del Mar Ave
                         From North                                                       From East                              From South                          From West
Start Time      Right   Thru    Left                            App. Total      Right   Thru      Left App. Total Right         Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left App. Total                        Int. Total
   07:00 AM         0     90     15                                       105      45       0       5         50      9          430       3       442          0       1       0          1                            598
   07:15 AM         0    132       6                                      138      41       1       4         46      8          490       1       499          0       4       0          4                            687
   07:30 AM         0    131     16                                       147      41       1       6         48     12          459       1       472          0       1       3          4                            671
   07:45 AM         5    140     16                                       161      37       1       9         47     12          498       2       512          1       2       0          3                            723
        Total       5    493     53                                       551    164        3      24       191      41         1877       7      1925          1       8       3        12                            2679

   08:00 AM        3     160                          24                  187     39        1       5           45       11      460      3        474                    0                 2            0     2        708
   08:15 AM        2     190                          21                  213     43        0       9           52        8      432      2        442                    1                 2            0     3        710
   08:30 AM        2     213                          13                  228     37        1       8           46       10      451      2        463                    2                 1            2     5        742
   08:45 AM        1     216                          20                  237     36        2      13           51        6      452      1        459                    0                 1            1     2        749
        Total      8     779                          78                  865    155        4      35          194       35     1795      8       1838                    3                 6            3    12       2909

 Grand Total       13   1272                         131                 1416    319        7      59          385       76     3672      15      3763            4               14                      6   24       5588
   Apprch %       0.9    89.8                         9.3                       82.9      1.8    15.3                     2      97.6    0.4                   16.7             58.3                     25
     Total %      0.2    22.8                         2.3                25.3     5.7     0.1     1.1          6.9      1.4      65.7    0.3       67.3         0.1              0.3                    0.1   0.4


                                                                                                           Highway 1
                                                                                                    Out        In       Total
                                                                                                    3997      1416       5413


                                                                                                           13 1272      131
                                                                                                        Right Thru     Left
                                                59
                                             Total




                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                               221
                                                            6




                                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                                Reina del Mar Ave
                            Reina del Mar Ave




                                                                                                                                                              319




                                                                                                               North
                                       24


                                                                    14
                                                            Right Thru
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                                   7/30/2009 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                                         385
                                                                                                                                                                      7




                                                                                                   7/30/2009 08:45 AM
                                                                4




                                                                                                                                                            Left
                             35




                                                                                                   Unshifted
                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                                              59


                                                                                                                                                                                                  606




                                                                                                        Left Thru Right
                                                                                                          15 3672    76


                                                                                                    1335      3763       5098
                                                                                                    Out        In       Total
                                                                                                           Highway 1
                                                                      Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                P.O. Box 4205
                                                                            San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                            Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Highway 1 & Reina del Mar                                                                      File Name           : Highway 1 & Reina del Mar AM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                        Site Code           : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                    Start Date          : 7/30/2009
                                                                                                             Page No             :2


                              Highway 1                     Reina del Mar Ave                               Highway 1                          Reina del Mar Ave
                              From North                        From East                                  From South                             From West
    Start Time Right Thru             Left App. Total Right   Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru   Left     App. Total    Right   Thru     Left App. Total                         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
     08:00 AM           3     160      24         187    39        1      5         45             11       460       3         474                   0                  2            0       2        708
     08:15 AM           2     190      21         213    43        0      9         52               8       432       2       442                    1        2                      0       3        710
     08:30 AM           2     213      13         228    37        1      8         46              10       451       2       463                    2        1                      2       5        742
     08:45 AM           1     216      20         237    36        2     13         51               6       452       1       459            0                1                       1     2         749
 Total Volume           8     779      78         865   155        4     35       194               35     1795        8      1838            3                6                       3    12       2909
  % App. Total        0.9    90.1        9             79.9      2.1     18                        1.9      97.7     0.4                     25               50                      25
           PHF      .667     .902    .813        .912  .901    .500    .673      .933            .795       .976   .667        .969        .375             .750                    .375   .600       .971

                                                                                        Highway 1
                                                                                 Out        In    Total
                                                                                 1953        865   2818


                                                                                       8  779      78
                                                                                   Right Thru    Left




                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                                   32
                                                Total




                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                           119
                                                            3




                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                        Left




                                                                                                                                                            Reina del Mar Ave
                               Reina del Mar Ave




                                                                                                                                          155
                                                                                         North
                                          12


                                                                  6
                                                        Right Thru
                                        In




                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                    194
                                                                                                                                                  4




                                                                            Unshifted
                                                            3




                                                                                                                                        Left
                                20
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                          35


                                                                                                                                                                              313




                                                                                   Left Thru Right
                                                                                       8 1795   35


                                                                                  817      1838    2655
                                                                                 Out        In    Total
                                                                                        Highway 1
                                                                                  Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                                     P.O. Box 4205
                                                                                                 San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                                                 Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Highway 1 & Reina del Mar                                                                                              File Name         : Highway 1 & Reina del Mar PM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                                                Site Code         : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                                            Start Date        : 7/29/2009
                                                                                                                                     Page No           :1


                                                                                                  Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         Highway 1                                                     Reina del Mar Ave                            Highway 1                       Reina del Mar Ave
                         From North                                                        From East                               From South                          From West
Start Time      Right   Thru    Left                            App. Total       Right   Thru      Left App. Total Right          Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left App. Total                         Int. Total
   04:00 PM         4    498     42                                        544      33       0      18         51     18           270       2       290          2       2       1          5                             890
   04:15 PM         3    626     48                                        677      28       2      24         54     14           334       4       352          3       0       1          4                            1087
   04:30 PM         0    558     48                                        606      18       0      16         34     22           331       7       360          1       0       2          3                            1003
   04:45 PM         2    560     53                                        615      18       1      36         55     15           308       6       329          4       1       1          6                            1005
        Total       9   2242    191                                       2442      97       3      94       194      69          1243     19       1331         10       3       5        18                             3985

   05:00 PM        3     509                          43                   555     29        1      23           53        24      353      9        386                    2                 0             5     7       1001
   05:15 PM        2     582                          60                   644     21        0      19           40        16      339      2        357                    2                 1             4     7       1048
   05:30 PM        1     541                          73                   615     26        0      22           48        19      338      6        363                    1                 2             4     7       1033
   05:45 PM        3     659                          46                   708     28        2      15           45        20      310      1        331                    0                 3             1     4       1088
        Total      9    2291                         222                  2522    104        3      79          186        79     1340     18       1437                    5                 6            14    25       4170

 Grand Total       18   4533                         413                  4964    201        6     173          380       148     2583      37      2768           15                9                      19   43       8155
   Apprch %       0.4    91.3                         8.3                        52.9      1.6    45.5                     5.3     93.3    1.3                   34.9             20.9                    44.2
     Total %      0.2    55.6                         5.1                 60.9     2.5     0.1      2.1         4.7        1.8     31.7    0.5       33.9         0.2              0.1                     0.2   0.5


                                                                                                             Highway 1
                                                                                                     Out         In       Total
                                                                                                     2803       4964       7767


                                                                                                             18 4533      413
                                                                                                          Right Thru     Left
                                              104
                                             Total




                                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                                                                 570
                                                              19




                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                                  Reina del Mar Ave
                            Reina del Mar Ave




                                                                                                                                                                201




                                                                                                                North
                                       43


                                                                      9
                                                            Right Thru
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                    7/29/2009 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                           380
                                                                                                                                                                        6




                                                                                                    7/29/2009 05:45 PM
                                                               15




                                                                                                                                                              Left
                             61




                                                                                                                                                               173




                                                                                                    Unshifted
                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                    950




                                                                                                          Left Thru Right
                                                                                                            37 2583   148


                                                                                                     4721       2768       7489
                                                                                                     Out         In       Total
                                                                                                             Highway 1
                                                                      Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                P.O. Box 4205
                                                                            San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                            Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Highway 1 & Reina del Mar                                                                      File Name           : Highway 1 & Reina del Mar PM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                        Site Code           : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                    Start Date          : 7/29/2009
                                                                                                             Page No             :2


                              Highway 1                     Reina del Mar Ave                               Highway 1                          Reina del Mar Ave
                              From North                        From East                                  From South                             From West
    Start Time Right Thru             Left App. Total Right   Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru   Left     App. Total    Right   Thru     Left App. Total                         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
     05:00 PM           3     509       43        555    29        1     23         53             24       353       9         386                   2                  0            5       7      1001
     05:15 PM           2     582       60        644    21        0     19         40              16       339       2       357            2                          1             4     7       1048
     05:30 PM           1     541       73        615    26        0     22         48              19       338       6       363            1                          2             4     7       1033
     05:45 PM           3     659       46        708    28        2     15         45              20       310       1       331            0                          3             1     4       1088
 Total Volume           9 2291        222       2522    104        3     79       186               79     1340       18      1437            5                6                      14    25       4170
  % App. Total        0.4    90.8      8.8             55.9      1.6   42.5                        5.5      93.2     1.3                     20               24                      56
           PHF      .750     .869    .760        .891  .897    .375    .859      .877            .823       .949   .500        .931        .625             .500                    .700   .893       .958

                                                                                        Highway 1
                                                                                 Out        In    Total
                                                                                 1458      2522    3980


                                                                                       9 2291     222
                                                                                   Right Thru    Left




                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                                   55
                                                Total




                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                           307
                                                          14




                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                        Left




                                                                                                                                                            Reina del Mar Ave
                               Reina del Mar Ave




                                                                                                                                          104
                                                                                         North
                                          25


                                                                  6
                                                        Right Thru
                                        In




                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                    186
                                                                                                                                                  3




                                                                            Unshifted
                                                            5




                                                                                                                                        Left
                                30
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                          79


                                                                                                                                                                              493




                                                                                   Left Thru Right
                                                                                     18 1340    79


                                                                                 2375      1437    3812
                                                                                 Out        In    Total
                                                                                        Highway 1
                                                                 Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                   P.O. Box 4205
                                                                               San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                               Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Terra Nova & Fassler                                                                                     File Name            : Terra Nova & Fassler AM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                                  Site Code            : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                              Start Date           : 7/30/2009
                                                                                                                       Page No              :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Unshifted
                 TERRA NOVA BLVD                                   FASSLER AVE                   TERRA NOVA BLVD                       FASSLER AVE
                       From North                                       From East                       From South                          From West
Start Time      Right Thru    Left App. Total                   Right  Thru    Left App. Total Right    Thru   Left App. Total     Right   Thru   Left             App. Total   Int. Total
   07:00 AM         0    0       0          0                       0     2       0          2     0       0   133       133          13      0      0                    13         148
   07:15 AM         0    0       0          0                       0     2       0          2     0       0   127       127          21      2      0                    23         152
   07:30 AM         0    0       0          0                       0     4       0          4     1       0   125       126          11      1      0                    12         142
   07:45 AM         0    0       0          0                       0     1       1          2     0       0   107       107          20      1      0                    21         130
        Total       0    0       0          0                       0     9       1        10      1       0   492       493          65      4      0                    69         572

   08:00 AM        0       0              0                 0      0       1       0            1            0   0   122    122            32           0      0         32          155
   08:15 AM        0       0              0                 0      0       3       1            4            2   0   113    115            31           1      0         32          151
   08:30 AM        0       0              0                 0      0       2       0            2            1   0   116    117            41           0      0         41          160
   08:45 AM        0       0              0                 0      0       4       1            5            0   0    90     90            25           1      0         26          121
        Total      0       0              0                 0      0      10       2           12            3   0   441    444           129           2      0        131          587

 Grand Total       0       0              0                 0      0      19       3           22         4      0    933   937        194           6         0        200        1159
   Apprch %        0       0              0                        0    86.4    13.6                    0.4      0   99.6               97           3         0
     Total %       0       0              0                 0      0     1.6     0.3          1.9       0.3      0   80.5   80.8      16.7         0.5         0       17.3


                                                                                 TERRA NOVA BLVD
                                                                                  Out    In     Total
                                                                                      0     0       0


                                                                                           0     0           0
                                                                                       Right Thru     Left
                               1152
                               Total




                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                                FASSLER AVE
                                              0




                                                                                                                                   Right Thru



                                                                                                                                                  10
                                                    Left




                                                                                              North
                                                                                                                                       0
                                    200
                          FASSLER AVE




                                                        6
                                              Right Thru
                                   In




                                                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                  7/30/2009 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                           19


                                                                                                                                                          22




                                                                                  7/30/2009 08:45 AM
                                                194




                                                                                                                                   Left
                            952




                                                                                  Unshifted
                           Out




                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                          3


                                                                                                                                                   32




                                                                                       Left Thru Right
                                                                                        933     0    4


                                                                                   197    937    1134
                                                                                  Out    In     Total
                                                                                 TERRA NOVA BLVD
                                                          Traffic Research Associates
                                                                       P.O. Box 4205
                                                                   San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                   Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Terra Nova & Fassler                                                                            File Name              : Terra Nova & Fassler AM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                         Site Code              : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                     Start Date             : 7/30/2009
                                                                                                              Page No                :2


                     TERRA NOVA BLVD                      FASSLER AVE                        TERRA NOVA BLVD                   FASSLER AVE
                              From North                       From East                          From South                        From West
    Start Time Right Thru             Left App. Total Right   Thru    Left     App. Total   Right Thru   Left App. Total    Right  Thru   Left                 App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
     07:45 AM          0         0       0          0     0      1       1             2        0      0   107       107           20            1         0          21         130
     08:00 AM          0         0       0          0     0      1       0             1        0      0    122      122           32         0            0          32         155
     08:15 AM          0         0       0          0     0      3       1              4       2      0    113      115           31         1            0          32         151
     08:30 AM          0         0       0          0     0      2       0             2        1      0    116      117            41        0            0          41         160
 Total Volume          0         0       0          0     0      7       2             9        3      0    458      461       124            2            0        126          596
  % App. Total         0         0       0                0   77.8   22.2                     0.7      0   99.3               98.4          1.6            0
           PHF      .000     .000    .000        .000  .000   .583   .500          .563     .375    .000   .939     .945      .756        .500          .000       .768         .931

                                                                       TERRA NOVA BLVD
                                                                        Out    In     Total
                                                                            0     0       0


                                                                              0     0           0
                                                                          Right Thru        Left




                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                                  591
                                 Total




                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                         FASSLER AVE
                                                0




                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                    North
                                                                                                                               0
                                      126
                             FASSLER AVE




                                                      2
                                            Right Thru
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                                     7


                                                                                                                                                    9


                                                                   Unshifted
                                              124




                                                                                                                           Left
                               465
                              Out




                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                               2


                                                                                                                                            14




                                                                             Left Thru Right
                                                                              458     0    3


                                                                         126    461     587
                                                                        Out    In     Total
                                                                       TERRA NOVA BLVD
                                                                    Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                      P.O. Box 4205
                                                                                  San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                                  Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Terra Nova & Fassler                                                                                        File Name              : Terra Nova & Fassler PM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                                     Site Code              : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                                 Start Date             : 7/30/2009
                                                                                                                          Page No                :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Unshifted
                        Terra Nova Blvd                                    Fassler Ave                      Terra Nova Blvd                           Fassler Ave
                          From North                                        From East                         From South                               From West
Start Time      Right    Thru     Left App. Total                  Right   Thru     Left App. Total Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Right         Thru     Left          App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM         0        0      0           0                      0      3       1           4     0        0     39         39       89            3       0                 92          135
   04:15 PM         0        0      0           0                      0      1       0           1     1        0     73         74       93            2       0                 95          170
   04:30 PM         0        0      0           0                      0      2       0           2     0        0     71         71     118             2       0                120          193
   04:45 PM         0        0      0           0                      0      2       2           4     0        0     51         51       94            4       0                 98          153
        Total       0        0      0           0                      0      8       3         11      1        0    234       235      394            11       0                405          651

   05:00 PM        0          0               0                0      0       2       0            2            0   0    48       48           123           1           0        124          174
   05:15 PM        0          0               0                0      0       1       0            1            0   0    67       67           127           3           0        130          198
   05:30 PM        0          0               0                0      0       0       0            0            0   0    65       65           133           3           0        136          201
   05:45 PM        0          0               0                0      0       6       0            6            0   0    69       69           129           3           0        132          207
        Total      0          0               0                0      0       9       0            9            0   0   249      249           512          10           0        522          780

 Grand Total       0          0               0                0      0      17       3           20         1      0    483     484        906            21            0        927        1431
   Apprch %        0          0               0                       0      85      15                    0.2      0   99.8               97.7           2.3            0
     Total %       0          0               0                0      0     1.2     0.2          1.4       0.1      0   33.8    33.8       63.3           1.5            0       64.8


                                                                                            Terra Nova Blvd
                                                                                      Out          In      Total
                                                                                            0         0        0


                                                                                              0     0           0
                                                                                          Right Thru     Left
                                  1427
                                  Total




                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                  0




                                                                                                                                        Right Thru



                                                                                                                                                       22
                                                       Left




                                                                                                 North
                                                                                                                                                     Fassler Ave
                                Fassler Ave




                                                                                                                                            0
                                       927


                                                          21
                                                  Right Thru
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                     7/30/2009 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                17


                                                                                                                                                           20




                                                                                     7/30/2009 05:45 PM
                                                    906




                                                                                                                                        Left
                             500




                                                                                     Unshifted
                            Out




                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                               3


                                                                                                                                                                    42




                                                                                          Left Thru Right
                                                                                           483     0    1


                                                                                       909        484     1393
                                                                                      Out        In      Total
                                                                                          Terra Nova Blvd
                                                            Traffic Research Associates
                                                                          P.O. Box 4205
                                                                      San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                      Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Terra Nova & Fassler                                                                                File Name                : Terra Nova & Fassler PM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                             Site Code                : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                         Start Date               : 7/30/2009
                                                                                                                  Page No                  :2


                           Terra Nova Blvd                     Fassler Ave                           Terra Nova Blvd                            Fassler Ave
                              From North                        From East                              From South                                From West
    Start Time Right Thru             Left App. Total Right    Thru     Left      App. Total   Right  Thru     Left App. Total    Right         Thru     Left             App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
     05:00 PM          0         0       0          0     0       2        0              2       0        0     48        48         123                 1           0        124          174
     05:15 PM          0         0       0          0     0       1        0              1       0        0     67        67         127                 3           0        130          198
     05:30 PM          0         0       0          0     0       0        0              0       0        0     65        65         133            3                0        136          201
     05:45 PM          0         0       0          0     0       6        0               6      0        0      69        69       129             3                0        132          207
 Total Volume          0         0       0          0     0       9        0              9       0        0    249       249        512            10                0        522          780
  % App. Total         0         0       0                0     100        0                      0        0    100                 98.1           1.9                0
           PHF      .000     .000    .000        .000  .000    .375     .000          .375     .000     .000   .902       .902      .962         .833              .000       .960         .942

                                                                                  Terra Nova Blvd
                                                                           Out           In     Total
                                                                                  0         0       0


                                                                                   0     0         0
                                                                               Right Thru      Left




                                                                       Peak Hour Data
                                   780
                                  Total




                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                   0




                                                                                                                                 Right Thru



                                                                                                                                                 10
                                               Left




                                                                                       North
                                 Fassler Ave




                                                                                                                                               Fassler Ave
                                                                                                                                     0
                                       522


                                                       10
                                               Right Thru
                                       In




                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                                           9


                                                                                                                                                       9


                                                                      Unshifted
                                                 512




                                                                                                                                 Left
                              258
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                     0


                                                                                                                                                              19




                                                                               Left Thru Right
                                                                                249     0    0


                                                                            512        249     761
                                                                           Out        In     Total
                                                                               Terra Nova Blvd
                                                                         Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                           P.O. Box 4205
                                                                                       San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                                       Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Terra Nova & Oddstad                                                                                            File Name             : Terra Nova & Oddstad AM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                                         Site Code             : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                                     Start Date            : 8/5/2009
                                                                                                                              Page No               :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                        Terra Nova Blvd                                         Oddstad Blvd                     Terra Nova Blvd                              Oddstad Blvd
                          From North                                             From East                         From South                                  From West
Start Time      Right    Thru     Left App. Total                       Right   Thru     Left App. Total Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Right            Thru     Left               App. Total   Int. Total
   07:00 AM         3        0     15         18                           29     31       0         60      0        0      0           0       0              16       4                       20          98
   07:15 AM         9        0      2         11                           16     31       0         47      0        0      0           0       0              13       8                       21          79
   07:30 AM        12        0      8         20                           26     33       0         59      0        0      0           0       0              11      10                       21         100
   07:45 AM         8        0     16         24                           30     28       0         58      0        0      0           0       0              15       4                       19         101
        Total      32        0     41         73                         101     123       0       224       0        0      0           0       0              55      26                       81         378

   08:00 AM        7          0                 8                 15      40      50       2                92        0   0    0        0                 0          26             14          40          147
   08:15 AM       11          0                15                 26      27      31       0                58        0   0    0        0                 0          21             12          33          117
   08:30 AM        9          0                 9                 18      27      40       0                67        0   0    0        0                 0          27             23          50          135
   08:45 AM        8          0                11                 19      15      52       2                69        0   0    0        0                 0          22             20          42          130
        Total     35          0                43                 78     109     173       4               286        0   0    0        0                 0          96             69         165          529

 Grand Total      67          0              84                  151     210     296        4              510        0   0    0        0                 0      151                 95        246          907
   Apprch %     44.4          0            55.6                         41.2      58      0.8                         0   0    0                          0     61.4               38.6
     Total %     7.4          0             9.3                  16.6   23.2    32.6      0.4              56.2       0   0    0        0                 0     16.6               10.5       27.1


                                                                                               Terra Nova Blvd
                                                                                           Out        In      Total
                                                                                            305        151      456


                                                                                                   67     0          84
                                                                                                Right Thru         Left
                                   609
                                  Total




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                               235
                                                      95




                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                               210




                                                                                                           North
                                                                                                                                                              Oddstad Blvd
                                Oddstad Blvd

                                       246


                                                           151
                                                    Right Thru
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                    296




                                                                                           8/5/2009 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                    510




                                                                                           8/5/2009 08:45 AM
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                             Left
                             363




                                                                                           Unshifted
                            Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                    4


                                                                                                                                                                            745




                                                                                                Left       Thru Right
                                                                                                       0       0    0


                                                                                                 4         0        4
                                                                                           Out          In      Total
                                                                                                 Terra Nova Blvd
                                                                  Traffic Research Associates
                                                                            P.O. Box 4205
                                                                        San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                        Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Terra Nova & Oddstad                                                                                 File Name            : Terra Nova & Oddstad AM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                              Site Code            : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                          Start Date           : 8/5/2009
                                                                                                                   Page No              :2


                           Terra Nova Blvd                  Oddstad Blvd                               Terra Nova Blvd                          Oddstad Blvd
                              From North                     From East                                   From South                              From West
    Start Time Right Thru             Left App. Total Right Thru     Left           App. Total   Right  Thru     Left App. Total   Right        Thru     Left               App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
     08:00 AM          7         0       8         15    40   50        2                  92       0        0      0          0         0              26            14           40         147
     08:15 AM         11         0     15          26    27   31        0                 58        0        0      0          0         0              21            12           33         117
     08:30 AM          9         0       9         18    27   40        0                 67        0        0      0          0         0              27            23           50         135
     08:45 AM          8         0     11          19    15   52        2                 69        0        0      0          0         0          22                 20         42          130
 Total Volume         35         0     43          78   109  173        4                286        0        0      0          0         0          96                 69        165          529
  % App. Total      44.9         0   55.1              38.1 60.5      1.4                           0        0      0                    0        58.2               41.8
           PHF      .795     .000    .717        .750  .681 .832    .500                .777     .000     .000   .000       .000      .000        .889               .750       .825         .900

                                                                                 Terra Nova Blvd
                                                                             Out        In     Total
                                                                              178         78     256


                                                                                  35     0         43
                                                                               Right Thru        Left




                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                              373
                                             Total




                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                                 139
                                                       69




                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                     109
                                                                                         North


                                                                                                                                                Oddstad Blvd
                                Oddstad Blvd

                                      165


                                                             96
                                                     Right Thru
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                          173




                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                      286


                                                                        Unshifted
                                                         0




                                                                                                                                   Left
                             208
                            Out




                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                       4


                                                                                                                                                              425




                                                                               Left Thru Right
                                                                                   0    0    0


                                                                                    4         0       4
                                                                             Out           In     Total
                                                                                    Terra Nova Blvd
                                                                          Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                            P.O. Box 4205
                                                                                        San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                                        Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Terra Nova & Oddstad                                                                                             File Name          : Terra Nova & Oddstad PM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                                          Site Code          : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                                      Start Date         : 8/4/2009
                                                                                                                               Page No            :1


                                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                        Terra Nova Blvd                                          Oddstad Blvd                     Terra Nova Blvd                              Oddstad Blvd
                          From North                                              From East                         From South                                  From West
Start Time      Right    Thru     Left App. Total                        Right   Thru     Left App. Total Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Right            Thru     Left               App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM        23        0     32         55                            18     41       1         60      0        0      0           0       0              48      28                      76          191
   04:15 PM        15        0     34         49                            13     44       5         62      0        0      0           0       0              37      27                      64          175
   04:30 PM        17        0     22         39                            18     27       2         47      0        0      0           0       0              40      22                      62          148
   04:45 PM        11        0     41         52                            23     39       5         67      0        0      0           0       0              37      39                      76          195
        Total      66        0    129       195                             72    151      13       236       0        0      0           0       0             162     116                     278          709

   05:00 PM       18          0                 33                 51      24      46       4                74        0   0    0        0                 0        48               39          87          212
   05:15 PM       22          0                 36                 58      20      31       4                55        0   0    0        0                 0        56               26          82          195
   05:30 PM       14          0                 26                 40      26      41       1                68        0   0    0        0                 0        44               28          72          180
   05:45 PM       22          0                 32                 54      30      45       4                79        0   0    0        0                 0        60               32          92          225
        Total     76          0                127                203     100     163      13               276        0   0    0        0                 0       208              125         333          812

 Grand Total     142          0             256                   398     172     314       26              512        0   0    0        0                 0      370                241        611        1521
   Apprch %     35.7          0            64.3                          33.6    61.3      5.1                         0   0    0                          0     60.6               39.4
     Total %      9.3         0            16.8                   26.2   11.3    20.6      1.7              33.7       0   0    0        0                 0     24.3               15.8       40.2


                                                                                                Terra Nova Blvd
                                                                                            Out        In      Total
                                                                                             413        398      811


                                                                                                   142     0         256
                                                                                                 Right Thru         Left
                                  1067
                                  Total




                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                                626
                                                      241




                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                                172




                                                                                                            North
                                                                                                                                                               Oddstad Blvd
                                Oddstad Blvd

                                       611


                                                            370
                                                     Right Thru
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                                                                                     314




                                                                                            8/4/2009 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                     512




                                                                                            8/4/2009 05:45 PM
                                                         0




                                                                                                                                              Left
                             456




                                                                                            Unshifted
                            Out




                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                                26


                                                                                                                                                                            1138




                                                                                                 Left       Thru Right
                                                                                                        0       0    0


                                                                                              26          0       26
                                                                                            Out        In      Total
                                                                                                Terra Nova Blvd
                                                                   Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                 P.O. Box 4205
                                                                             San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                             Data You Can Count On

Intersection: Terra Nova & Oddstad                                                                                      File Name            : Terra Nova & Oddstad PM
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                                   Site Code            : 09241
Project: City of Pacifica                                                                                               Start Date           : 8/4/2009
                                                                                                                        Page No              :2


                           Terra Nova Blvd                            Oddstad Blvd                          Terra Nova Blvd                          Oddstad Blvd
                              From North                               From East                              From South                              From West
    Start Time Right Thru             Left App. Total Right           Thru    Left       App. Total   Right  Thru     Left App. Total   Right        Thru     Left               App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
     05:00 PM         18         0     33          51    24             46        4             74       0       0       0          0         0              48            39           87         212
     05:15 PM         22         0     36          58    20             31         4            55       0       0       0          0         0              56             26          82         195
     05:30 PM         14         0     26          40    26             41         1            68       0       0       0          0         0              44             28          72         180
     05:45 PM         22         0     32          54    30             45         4            79       0       0       0          0         0              60             32          92         225
 Total Volume         76         0    127         203   100            163        13          276        0       0       0          0         0         208                125        333          812
  % App. Total      37.4         0   62.6              36.2           59.1       4.7                     0       0       0                    0        62.5               37.5
           PHF      .864     .000    .882        .875  .833           .886     .813          .873     .000    .000    .000       .000      .000        .867               .801       .905         .902

                                                                                      Terra Nova Blvd
                                                                                  Out        In     Total
                                                                                   225        203     428


                                                                                          76     0     127
                                                                                       Right Thru     Left




                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                               572
                                              Total




                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                      335
                                                       125




                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                      Left




                                                                                                                                          100
                                                                                              North


                                                                                                                                                     Oddstad Blvd
                                 Oddstad Blvd

                                       333


                                                             208
                                                      Right Thru
                                       In




                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                               163




                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                           276


                                                                             Unshifted
                                                          0




                                                                                                                                        Left
                              239
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                          13


                                                                                                                                                                   611




                                                                                       Left Thru Right
                                                                                           0    0    0


                                                                                    13          0      13
                                                                                  Out        In     Total
                                                                                      Terra Nova Blvd
B. Levels of Service Calculation Worksheets
Existing AM Peak Hour      Wed Sep 2, 2009 10:03:17                  Page 4-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                              EXISTING CONDITIONS
                              AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Route 1 & Linda Mar Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):         100                Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.438
Loss Time (sec):      12                Average Delay (sec/veh):        26.7
Optimal Cycle:        37                Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Approach:      North Bound      South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Protected        Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:           Include          Include           Ovl              Ovl
Min. Green:     4   10    10     4   10    10     4    4     4     4    4     4
Y+R:          5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:        1 0 1 1 0        2 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 0 1        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:       8 430     76   263 161     41    75   48     2    53   43   489
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    8 430     76   263 161     41    75   48     2    53   43   489
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:     9 464     82   284 174     44    81   52     2    57   46   528
Reduct Vol:     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0
Reduced Vol:    9 464     82   284 174     44    81   52     2    57   46   528
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    9 464     82   284 174     44    81   52     2    57   46   528
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.95 1.00 0.85 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:       1.00 1.70 0.30 2.00 1.59 0.41 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.55 0.45 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3000    530 3502 2791    711 1805 1900 1615 1021 828 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.15 0.15 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.04 0.03 0.00 0.06 0.06 0.19
Crit Moves:       ****        ****             ****                        ****
Green/Cycle: 0.15 0.35 0.35 0.19 0.38 0.38 0.10 0.10 0.26 0.24 0.24 0.42
Volume/Cap: 0.03 0.44 0.44 0.44 0.16 0.16 0.44 0.27 0.01 0.23 0.23 0.44
Delay/Veh:   36.0 25.0 25.0 36.6 20.2 20.2 43.8 42.1 27.7 31.0 31.0 20.6
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 36.0 25.0 25.0 36.6 20.2 20.2 43.8 42.1 27.7 31.0 31.0 20.6
LOS by Move:    D    C     C     D    C     C     D    D     C     C    C     C
HCM2kAvgQ:      0    7     7     4    2     2     3    2     0     3    3     7
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************



 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Existing AM Peak Hour      Wed Sep 2, 2009 10:03:17                  Page 5-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                              EXISTING CONDITIONS
                              AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):         130                Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.631
Loss Time (sec):      12                Average Delay (sec/veh):        30.0
Optimal Cycle:        53                Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:             Route 1                         Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound      South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Protected        Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:           Include          Include          Include           Ovl
Min. Green:     5   20    20     4   25    25     4    4     4     4    4     4
Y+R:          5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:        1 0 1 1 0        2 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0       0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 31 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:      20 1127     9   193 565     22    39    4    28    13   13   548
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   20 1127     9   193 565     22    39    4    28    13   13   548
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:    21 1178     9   202 590     23    41    4    29    14   14   573
Reduct Vol:     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0
Reduced Vol:   21 1178     9   202 590     23    41    4    29    14   14   573
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:   21 1178     9   202 590     23    41    4    29    14   14   573
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.92 0.94 0.94 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.98 0.98 0.75
Lanes:       1.00 1.98 0.02 2.00 1.93 0.07 0.55 0.06 0.39 0.50 0.50 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3578     29 3502 3454    134   962   99   690   927 927 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.01 0.33 0.33 0.06 0.17 0.17 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.01 0.01 0.20
Crit Moves:       ****        ****                        ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.10 0.52 0.52 0.09 0.51 0.51 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.23 0.23 0.32
Volume/Cap: 0.11 0.63 0.63 0.63 0.33 0.33 0.63 0.63 0.63 0.06 0.06 0.63
Delay/Veh:   53.3 22.9 22.9 61.0 18.9 18.9 69.7 69.7 69.7 39.4 39.4 39.2
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 53.3 22.9 22.9 61.0 18.9 18.9 69.7 69.7 69.7 39.4 39.4 39.2
LOS by Move:    D    C     C     E    B     B     E    E     E     D    D     D
HCM2kAvgQ:      1   18    18     4    7     7     4    4     4     1    1    12
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************


 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Existing AM Peak Hour      Wed Sep 2, 2009 10:03:17                  Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                              EXISTING CONDITIONS
                              AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #4 Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):         152                Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.703
Loss Time (sec):      12                Average Delay (sec/veh):        17.0
Optimal Cycle:        65                Level Of Service:                  B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:             Rotue 1                     Reina Del Mar Avenue
Approach:      North Bound      South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Protected        Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:           Include          Include          Include           Ovl
Min. Green:     4   20    20     4   10    10     4    4     4     4    4     4
Y+R:          5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:        1 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0       0 0 1! 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:       8 1795    35    78 779      8     3    6     3    35    4   155
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    8 1795    35    78 779      8     3    6     3    35    4   155
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
PHF Volume:     8 1849    36    80 802      8     3    6     3    36    4   160
Reduct Vol:     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0
Reduced Vol:    8 1849    36    80 802      8     3    6     3    36    4   160
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    8 1849    36    80 802      8     3    6     3    36    4   160
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.87 0.87 0.87
Lanes:       1.00 1.96 0.04 1.00 1.98 0.02 0.25 0.50 0.25 0.30 0.03 1.67
Final Sat.: 1805 3530     69 1805 3570     37   453 907    453   498   57 2759
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.52 0.52 0.04 0.22 0.22 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.07 0.07 0.06
Crit Moves:       ****        ****                  ****        ****
Green/Cycle: 0.08 0.73 0.73 0.06 0.71 0.71 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.10 0.10 0.16
Volume/Cap: 0.05 0.72 0.72 0.72 0.32 0.32 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.72 0.72 0.35
Delay/Veh:   64.3 12.5 12.5 89.7 8.3      8.3 75.4 75.4 75.4 74.8 74.8 56.9
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 64.3 12.5 12.5 89.7 8.3       8.3 75.4 75.4 75.4 74.8 74.8 56.9
LOS by Move:    E    B     B     F    A     A     E    E     E     E    E     E
HCM2kAvgQ:      0   26    26     5    7     7     1    1     1     7    7     4
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************


 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Existing AM Peak Hour      Wed Sep 2, 2009 10:03:17                  Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                              EXISTING CONDITIONS
                              AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Level Of Service Computation Report
            2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #32 Fassler Ave. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):     10.3       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.3]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Terra Nova Blvd.                    Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound      South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Stop Sign        Stop Sign       Uncontrolled     Uncontrolled
Rights:           Include          Include          Include          Include
Lanes:        0 0 1! 0 0       0 0 0 0 0        0 0 0 1 0        0 1 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 7:45-8:45 a.m.
Base Vol:     458    0     3     0    0     0     0    2   124     2    7     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 458     0     3     0    0     0     0    2   124     2    7     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:   492    0     3     0    0     0     0    2   133     2    8     0
Reduct Vol:     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0
FinalVolume: 492     0     3     0    0     0     0    2   133     2    8     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 6.4 6.5     6.2 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx   4.1 xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx   2.2 xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol:   81   81    69 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx     135 xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 927 814 1000 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1461 xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    926 812 1000 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1461 xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.53 0.00 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.00 xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:   xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx     0.0 xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx   7.5 xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:    *    *     *     *    *     *     *    *     *     A    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx 926 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx 3.3 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    0.0 xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx 13.3 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx   7.5 xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:     *    B     *     *    *     *     *    *     *     A    *     *
ApproachDel:      13.3           xxxxxx           xxxxxx           xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:         B                *                *                *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Existing AM Peak Hour      Wed Sep 2, 2009 10:03:17                  Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                              EXISTING CONDITIONS
                              AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #35 Oddstad Blvd. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):         100                Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.220
Loss Time (sec):       0                Average Delay (sec/veh):         8.6
Optimal Cycle:         0                Level Of Service:                  A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Oddstad Blvd.                    Terra Nova Blvd.
Approach:      North Bound      South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Stop Sign        Stop Sign        Stop Sign        Stop Sign
Rights:           Include          Include          Include          Include
Min. Green:     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0
Lanes:        1 0 0 1 0        0 1 0 1 0        0 1 0 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Aug 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:      69   96     0     4 173    109    43    0    35     0    0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   69   96     0     4 173    109    43    0    35     0    0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:    77 107      0     4 192    121    48    0    39     0    0     0
Reduct Vol:     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0
Reduced Vol:   77 107      0     4 192    121    48    0    39     0    0     0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:   77 107      0     4 192    121    48    0    39     0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.00 0.00 0.03 1.21 0.76 1.00 0.10 0.90 0.00 1.00 0.00
Final Sat.:   644 707      0    20 894    618   557   69   606     0 588      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.12 0.15 xxxx 0.22 0.22 0.20 0.09 0.00 0.06 xxxx 0.00 xxxx
Crit Moves:       ****        ****             ****                  ****
Delay/Veh:    8.9 8.6    0.0   9.0 8.8    8.1   9.3 8.0    8.0   0.0 0.0    0.0
Delay Adj:   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:   8.9 8.6    0.0   9.0 8.8    8.1   9.3 8.0    8.0   0.0 0.0    0.0
LOS by Move:    A    A     *     A    A     A     A    A     A     *    *     *
ApproachDel:       8.7              8.5              8.7           xxxxxx
Delay Adj:        1.00             1.00             1.00            xxxxx
ApprAdjDel:        8.7              8.5              8.7           xxxxxx
LOS by Appr:         A                A                A                *
AllWayAvgQ:   0.1 0.2    0.2   0.3 0.2    0.2   0.1 0.1    0.1   0.0 0.0    0.0
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************


 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Existing PM Peak Hour       Wed Sep 2, 2009 10:04:13                  Page 4-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                  PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Route 1 & Linda Mar Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):         100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.581
Loss Time (sec):       12                Average Delay (sec/veh):        26.0
Optimal Cycle:         47                Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Protected         Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:           Include           Include           Ovl              Ovl
Min. Green:     4   10     10     4   10     10    4    4     4     4    4      4
Y+R:          5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:        1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 0 1        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 23 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:      14 372      74   740 483    128   101   89     7   127   81   384
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   14 372      74   740 483    128   101   89     7   127   81   384
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99
PHF Volume:    14 375      75   747 487    129   102   90     7   128   82   387
Reduct Vol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Reduced Vol:   14 375      75   747 487    129   102   90     7   128   82   387
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:   14 375      75   747 487     129  102   90     7   128   82    387
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.95 1.00 0.85 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:       1.00 1.67 0.33 2.00 1.58 0.42 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.61 0.39 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 2936     584 3502 2765    733 1805 1900 1615 1125 718 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.01 0.13 0.13 0.21 0.18 0.18 0.06 0.05 0.00 0.11 0.11 0.14
Crit Moves:       ****         ****             ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.11 0.22 0.22 0.37 0.48 0.48 0.10 0.10 0.21 0.20 0.20 0.56
Volume/Cap: 0.07 0.58 0.58 0.58 0.37 0.37 0.58 0.49 0.02 0.58 0.58 0.24
Delay/Veh:   40.2 36.0 36.0 26.2 16.7 16.7 48.1 44.8 31.7 38.9 38.9 11.1
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 40.2 36.0 36.0 26.2 16.7 16.7 48.1 44.8 31.7 38.9 38.9 11.1
LOS by Move:    D    D      D     C    B      B    D    D     C     D    D      B
HCM2kAvgQ:      0    7      7     9    6      6    4    3     0     7    7      3
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************



  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Existing PM Peak Hour       Wed Sep 2, 2009 10:04:13                  Page 5-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                  PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):         130                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.723
Loss Time (sec):       12                Average Delay (sec/veh):        27.2
Optimal Cycle:        66                 Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:              Route 1                         Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Protected         Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:           Include           Include          Include           Ovl
Min. Green:     5   20     20     4   25     25    4    4      4    4    4     4
Y+R:          5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:        1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0       0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 3 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:      31 914      17   844 1541     48   58   14     41   38   17   268
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   31 914      17   844 1541     48   58   14     41   38   17   268
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
PHF Volume:    34 1010     19   933 1703     53   64   15     45   42   19   296
Reduct Vol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0      0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol:   34 1010     19   933 1703     53   64   15     45   42   19   296
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:   34 1010     19   933 1703     53   64   15     45   42   19   296
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.92 0.95 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:       1.00 1.96 0.04 2.00 1.94 0.06 0.52 0.12 0.36 0.69 0.31 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3533      66 3502 3487     109  904 218     639 1269 568 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.29 0.29 0.27 0.49 0.49 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.03 0.03 0.10
Crit Moves:       ****         ****             ****                  ****
Green/Cycle: 0.06 0.40 0.40 0.37 0.71 0.71 0.10 0.10 0.10 0.05 0.05 0.41
Volume/Cap: 0.34 0.72 0.72 0.72 0.69 0.69 0.72 0.72 0.72 0.72 0.72 0.25
Delay/Veh:   61.1 35.1 35.1 37.4 11.6 11.6 70.9 70.9 70.9 87.6 87.6 25.0
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 61.1 35.1 35.1 37.4 11.6 11.6 70.9 70.9 70.9 87.6 87.6 25.0
LOS by Move:    E    D      D     D    B      B    E    E      E    F    F     C
HCM2kAvgQ:      1   18     18    16   20     20    6    6      6    4    4     4
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************


 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Existing PM Peak Hour       Wed Sep 2, 2009 10:04:13                   Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                  PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #4 Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          152                Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.839
Loss Time (sec):       12                Average Delay (sec/veh):         22.2
Optimal Cycle:       100                 Level Of Service:                   C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:              Rotue 1                      Reina Del Mar Avenue
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:           Include           Include           Include           Ovl
Min. Green:     4   20     20     4   10    10      4    4     4     4    4      4
Y+R:          5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:        1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 1! 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 29 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:      18 1340     79   222 2291     9     14    6     5    79    3    104
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   18 1340     79   222 2291     9    14     6     5    79    3   104
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:    19 1399     82   232 2391     9    15     6     5    82    3   109
Reduct Vol:     0    0      0     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0
Reduced Vol:   19 1399     82   232 2391     9    15     6     5    82    3   109
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:   19 1399     82   232 2391     9     15    6     5    82    3    109
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.94 0.94 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.90 0.90 0.90
Lanes:       1.00 1.89 0.11 1.00 1.99 0.01 0.56 0.24 0.20 0.59 0.02 1.39
Final Sat.: 1805 3382     199 1805 3592     14 1007 432      360 1005    38 2365
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.01 0.41 0.41 0.13 0.67 0.67 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.08 0.08 0.05
Crit Moves: ****                    ****              ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.03 0.61 0.61 0.19 0.77 0.77 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.10 0.10 0.28
Volume/Cap: 0.40 0.68 0.68 0.68 0.86 0.86 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.86 0.86 0.16
Delay/Veh:   78.2 20.6 20.6 62.7 14.7 14.7 86.4 86.4 86.4 94.7 94.7 40.8
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 78.2 20.6 20.6 62.7 14.7 14.7 86.4 86.4 86.4 94.7 94.7 40.8
LOS by Move:    E    C      C     E    B     B      F    F     F     F    F      D
HCM2kAvgQ:      1   23     23    11   41    41      2    2     2     9    9      3
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************


  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Existing PM Peak Hour      Wed Sep 2, 2009 10:04:14                   Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                              EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                  PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Level Of Service Computation Report
            2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #32 Fassler Ave. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):      4.2        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.2]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:         Terra Nova Blvd.                     Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound      South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Stop Sign        Stop Sign        Uncontrolled     Uncontrolled
Rights:           Include           Include          Include          Include
Lanes:        1 0 0 0 0        0 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0        0 0 1 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:     249    0     0     0     0     0     0   10   512     0    9     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 249     0     0     0     0     0     0   10   512     0    9     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
PHF Volume:   264    0     0     0     0     0     0   11   544     0   10     0
Reduct Vol:     0    0     0     0     0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0
FinalVolume: 264     0     0     0     0     0     0   11   544     0   10     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 6.4 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 3.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 292 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 703 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    703 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.38 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    1.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 13.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:    B    *     *     *     *     *     *    *     *     *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:     *    *     *     *     *     *     *    *     *     *    *     *
ApproachDel:      13.2           xxxxxx            xxxxxx           xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:         B                 *                *                *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************




 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Existing PM Peak Hour       Wed Sep 2, 2009 10:04:14                  Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                  PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #35 Oddstad Blvd. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.361
Loss Time (sec):        0                Average Delay (sec/veh):        10.4
Optimal Cycle:          0                Level Of Service:                  B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                    Terra Nova Blvd.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Stop Sign         Stop Sign        Stop Sign        Stop Sign
Rights:           Include           Include          Include          Include
Min. Green:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0      0    0    0     0
Lanes:        1 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 1 0        0 1 0 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 4 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:     125 208       0    13 163    100   127    0    76     0    0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 125 208        0    13 163    100   127    0    76     0    0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:   139 231       0    14 181    111   141    0    84     0    0     0
Reduct Vol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0      0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol: 139 231        0    14 181    111   141    0    84     0    0     0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 139 231        0    14 181     111  141    0     84    0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.00 0.00 0.09 1.19 0.72 1.00 0.25 0.75 0.00 1.00 0.00
Final Sat.:   585 638       0    58 750    496   520 153    455     0 510      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.24 0.36 xxxx 0.25 0.24 0.22 0.27 0.00 0.19 xxxx 0.00 xxxx
Crit Moves:       ****         ****             ****                  ****
Delay/Veh:   10.5 11.2    0.0 10.1 9.9     9.2 11.6 9.1     9.1   0.0 0.0    0.0
Delay Adj:   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 10.5 11.2     0.0 10.1 9.9     9.2 11.6 9.1     9.1   0.0 0.0    0.0
LOS by Move:    B    B      *     B    A      A    B    A      A    *    *     *
ApproachDel:      10.9               9.7             10.6           xxxxxx
Delay Adj:        1.00              1.00             1.00            xxxxx
ApprAdjDel:       10.9               9.7             10.6           xxxxxx
LOS by Appr:         B                 A                B                *
AllWayAvgQ:   0.3 0.5     0.5   0.3 0.3    0.3   0.3 0.1    0.1   0.0 0.0    0.0
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************


 Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Background AM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:50:11                 Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Route 1 & Linda Mar Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.443
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):        26.7
Optimal Cycle:         37                 Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Ovl              Ovl
Min. Green:      4   10     10     4   10     10    4    4     4     4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 0 1        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        8 430      76   263 161      41   75   48     2    53   43   489
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     8 430      76   263 161      41   75   48     2    53   43   489
Added Vol:       0   12      0     2    4      0    0    0     0     0    0     3
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:     8 442      76   265 165      41   75   48     2    53   43   492
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:      9 477      82   286 178      44   81   52     2    57   46   531
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0     0    0     0
Reduced Vol:     9 477      82   286 178      44   81   52     2    57   46   531
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     9 477      82   286 178      44   81   52     2    57   46   531
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.95 1.00 0.85 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.71 0.29 2.00 1.60 0.40 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.55 0.45 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3013      518 3502 2805     697 1805 1900 1615 1021 828 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.00 0.16 0.16 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.04 0.03 0.00 0.06 0.06 0.19
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                        ****
Green/Cycle: 0.15 0.36 0.36 0.18 0.39 0.39 0.10 0.10 0.26 0.24 0.24 0.42
Volume/Cap: 0.03 0.44 0.44 0.44 0.16 0.16 0.44 0.27 0.01 0.24 0.24 0.44
Delay/Veh:    35.9 24.8 24.8 36.7 20.1 20.1 44.0 42.3 27.7 31.1 31.1 20.8
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 35.9 24.8 24.8 36.7 20.1 20.1 44.0 42.3 27.7 31.1 31.1 20.8
LOS by Move:     D    C      C     D    C      C    D    D     C     C    C     C
HCM2kAvgQ:       0    7      7     4    2      2     3   2     0     3    3     7
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Background AM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:50:11                  Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          130                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.638
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):         30.6
Optimal Cycle:         54                 Level Of Service:                   C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Route 1                          Fassler Ave.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Ovl
Min. Green:      5   20     20     4   25     25    4     4      4    4    4      4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 31 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:       20 1127      9   193 565      22   39     4     28   13   13   548
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    20 1127      9   193 565      22   39     4     28   13   13   548
Added Vol:      14    3      0     4    0     23    3     1      2    5    8      5
0:               0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0    0      0
Initial Fut:    34 1130      9   197 565      45   42     5     30   18   21   553
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:     36 1181      9   206 590      47   44     5     31   19   22   578
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0    0      0
Reduced Vol:    36 1181      9   206 590      47   44     5     31   19   22   578
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    36 1181      9   206 590      47   44     5     31   19   22   578
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.92 0.94 0.94 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.98 0.98 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.98 0.02 2.00 1.85 0.15 0.55 0.06 0.39 0.46 0.54 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3578       28 3502 3307     263  955 114      682  857 1000 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.02 0.33 0.33 0.06 0.18 0.18 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.02 0.02 0.20
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                         ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.10 0.52 0.52 0.09 0.51 0.51 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.23 0.23 0.32
Volume/Cap: 0.19 0.64 0.64 0.64 0.35 0.35 0.64 0.64 0.64 0.10 0.10 0.64
Delay/Veh:    54.0 23.4 23.4 61.2 19.3 19.3 69.1 69.1 69.1 39.9 39.9 39.4
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 54.0 23.4 23.4 61.2 19.3 19.3 69.1 69.1 69.1 39.9 39.9 39.4
LOS by Move:     D    C      C     E    B      B    E     E      E    D    D      D
HCM2kAvgQ:       1   18     18     4    8      8    4     4      4    1    1     12
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Background AM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:50:11                  Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #4 Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          152                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.706
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):         16.9
Optimal Cycle:         65                 Level Of Service:                   B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Rotue 1                      Reina Del Mar Avenue
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Ovl
Min. Green:      4   20     20     4   10     10    4     4     4     4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 1! 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        8 1795     35    78 779       8    3     6     3    35    4   155
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     8 1795     35    78 779       8    3     6     3    35    4   155
Added Vol:       0   10      1     0   27      0    0     0     0     0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:     8 1805     36    78 806       8    3     6     3    35    4   155
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
PHF Volume:      8 1859     37    80 830       8    3     6     3    36    4   160
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     0     0    0     0
Reduced Vol:     8 1859     37    80 830       8     3    6     3    36    4   160
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     8 1859     37    80 830       8     3    6     3    36    4   160
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.87 0.87 0.87
Lanes:        1.00 1.96 0.04 1.00 1.98 0.02 0.25 0.50 0.25 0.30 0.03 1.67
Final Sat.: 1805 3529       70 1805 3571      35  453 907     453   498   57 2759
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.00 0.53 0.53 0.04 0.23 0.23 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.07 0.07 0.06
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                   ****        ****
Green/Cycle: 0.08 0.73 0.73 0.06 0.71 0.71 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.10 0.10 0.16
Volume/Cap: 0.06 0.72 0.72 0.72 0.33 0.33 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.72 0.72 0.36
Delay/Veh:    64.7 12.5 12.5 90.2 8.2        8.2 75.4 75.4 75.4 75.1 75.1 57.0
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 64.7 12.5 12.5 90.2 8.2          8.2 75.4 75.4 75.4 75.1 75.1 57.0
LOS by Move:     E    B      B     F    A      A    E     E     E     E    E     E
HCM2kAvgQ:       0   26     26     5    7      7     1    1     1     7    7     4
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Background AM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:50:11                   Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
                                    AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #32 Fassler Ave. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       10.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.5]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Terra Nova Blvd.                      Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign          Stop Sign       Uncontrolled     Uncontrolled
Rights:            Include            Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        0 0 1! 0 0         0 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0        0 1 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 7:45-8:45 a.m.
Base Vol:     458     0      3      0    0     0     0    2    124    2     7     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 458      0      3      0    0     0     0    2    124    2     7     0
Added Vol:     10     0      0      0    0     0     0    0      4    0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut: 468      0      3      0    0     0     0    2    128    2     7     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:   503     0      3      0    0     0     0    2    137    2     8     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
FinalVolume: 503      0      3      0    0     0     0    2    137    2     8     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 6.4 6.5       6.2 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    4.1 xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 3.5 4.0       3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    2.2 xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol:   83    83     71 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      140 xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 924 811       997 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1456 xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    923 810      997 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1456 xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.54 0.00 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.00 xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:   xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        0.0 xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.5 xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      *    *     *     *    *      *    A     *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx 924 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx 3.4 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx       0.0 xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx 13.5 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.5 xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    B      *      *    *     *     *    *      *    A     *     *
ApproachDel:       13.5             xxxxxx           xxxxxx           xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          B                  *                *                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Background AM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:50:11                 Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #35 Oddstad Blvd. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.220
Loss Time (sec):        0                 Average Delay (sec/veh):            8.6
Optimal Cycle:          0                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                      Terra Nova Blvd.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign        Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include           Include          Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 1 0        0 1 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Aug 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:       69   96      0     4 173     109   43     0     35    0     0      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    69   96      0     4 173     109   43     0     35    0     0      0
Added Vol:       0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    69   96      0     4 173     109   43     0     35    0     0      0
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     77 107       0     4 192     121   48     0     39    0     0      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    77 107       0     4 192     121   48     0     39    0     0      0
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    77 107       0     4 192     121   48     0     39    0     0      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:        1.00 1.00 0.00 0.03 1.21 0.76 1.00 0.10 0.90 0.00 1.00 0.00
Final Sat.:    644 707       0    20 894     618  557    69    606    0 588        0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.12 0.15 xxxx 0.22 0.22 0.20 0.09 0.00 0.06 xxxx 0.00 xxxx
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                   ****
Delay/Veh:     8.9 8.6     0.0   9.0 8.8     8.1  9.3 8.0      8.0  0.0 0.0      0.0
Delay Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:    8.9 8.6     0.0   9.0 8.8     8.1  9.3 8.0      8.0  0.0 0.0      0.0
LOS by Move:     A    A      *     A    A      A    A     A      A    *     *      *
ApproachDel:        8.7               8.5               8.7           xxxxxx
Delay Adj:         1.00              1.00              1.00            xxxxx
ApprAdjDel:         8.7               8.5               8.7           xxxxxx
LOS by Appr:          A                 A                 A                 *
AllWayAvgQ:    0.1 0.2     0.2   0.3 0.2     0.2  0.1 0.1      0.1  0.0 0.0      0.0
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Background PM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:51:26                 Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
            2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Route 1 & Linda Mar Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.584
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):        25.9
Optimal Cycle:          47                Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Protected          Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Ovl              Ovl
Min. Green:     4    10     10     4   10    10     4    4     4     4    4     4
Y+R:          5.0 5.0      5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:        1 0 1 1 0          2 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 0 1        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 23 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:      14 372       74   740 483    128   101   89     7   127   81   384
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   14 372       74   740 483    128   101   89     7   127   81   384
Added Vol:      0     7      0     3   21     0     0    0     0     0    0     4
PasserByVol:    0     0      0     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:   14 379       74   743 504    128   101   89     7   127   81   388
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99
PHF Volume:    14 382       75   750 509    129   102   90     7   128   82   392
Reduct Vol:     0     0      0     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0
Reduced Vol:   14 382       75   750 509    129   102   90     7   128   82   392
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:   14 382       75   750 509    129   102   90     7   128   82   392
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.95 1.00 0.85 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:       1.00 1.67 0.33 2.00 1.59 0.41 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.61 0.39 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 2948      576 3502 2792    709 1805 1900 1615 1125 718 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.01 0.13 0.13 0.21 0.18 0.18 0.06 0.05 0.00 0.11 0.11 0.14
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.11 0.22 0.22 0.37 0.48 0.48 0.10 0.10 0.20 0.19 0.19 0.56
Volume/Cap: 0.07 0.58 0.58 0.58 0.38 0.38 0.58 0.49 0.02 0.58 0.58 0.25
Delay/Veh:   40.4 35.9 35.9 26.2 16.5 16.5 48.3 44.9 32.0 39.0 39.0 11.2
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 40.4 35.9 35.9 26.2 16.5 16.5 48.3 44.9 32.0 39.0 39.0 11.2
LOS by Move:     D    D      D     C    B     B      D   D     C     D    D     B
HCM2kAvgQ:      0     7      7     9    6     6     4    3     0     7    7     3
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Background PM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:51:26                 Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
            2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          130                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.788
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):        32.7
Optimal Cycle:          80                Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Route 1                         Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include          Include           Ovl
Min. Green:     5    20     20     4   25    25     4    4     4     4    4     4
Y+R:          5.0 5.0      5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:        1 0 1 1 0          2 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0       0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 3 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:      31 914       17   844 1541    48    58   14    41    38   17   268
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   31 914       17   844 1541    48    58   14    41    38   17   268
Added Vol:      6     2      0     9    0     9    43   13    27     4    3     3
PasserByVol:    0     0      0     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:   37 916       17   853 1541    57   101   27    68    42   20   271
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
PHF Volume:    41 1012      19   943 1703    63   112   30    75    46   22   299
Reduct Vol:     0     0      0     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0
Reduced Vol:   41 1012      19   943 1703    63   112   30    75    46   22   299
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:   41 1012      19   943 1703    63   112   30    75    46   22   299
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.92 0.95 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:       1.00 1.96 0.04 2.00 1.93 0.07 0.51 0.14 0.35 0.68 0.32 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3534       66 3502 3464    128   910 243    612 1245 593 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.02 0.29 0.29 0.27 0.49 0.49 0.12 0.12 0.12 0.04 0.04 0.11
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                        ****       ****
Green/Cycle: 0.05 0.36 0.36 0.34 0.65 0.65 0.16 0.16 0.16 0.05 0.05 0.39
Volume/Cap: 0.44 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.75 0.75 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.27
Delay/Veh:   63.2 40.2 40.2 42.2 16.7 16.7 66.9 66.9 66.9 98.2 98.2 27.3
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 63.2 40.2 40.2 42.2 16.7 16.7 66.9 66.9 66.9 98.2 98.2 27.3
LOS by Move:    E     D      D     D    B     B     E    E     E     F    F     C
HCM2kAvgQ:      2    20     20    17   24    24    10   10    10     4    4     5
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Background PM Peak Hour     Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:51:26                  Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                              BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
                                  PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Level Of Service Computation Report
            2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #4 Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):         152                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.844
Loss Time (sec):       12                Average Delay (sec/veh):         22.4
Optimal Cycle:       103                 Level Of Service:                   C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:              Rotue 1                      Reina Del Mar Avenue
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:           Include           Include           Include           Ovl
Min. Green:     4   20     20     4   10    10     4     4     4     4    4     4
Y+R:          5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:        1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 1! 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 29 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:      18 1340     79   222 2291     9    14     6     5    79    3   104
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   18 1340     79   222 2291     9    14     6     5    79    3   104
Added Vol:      0   49      0     0   17     0     0     0     0     0    0     0
PasserByVol:    0    0      0     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:   18 1389     79   222 2308     9    14     6     5    79    3   104
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:    19 1450     82   232 2409     9    15     6     5    82    3   109
Reduct Vol:     0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0     0     0    0     0
Reduced Vol:   19 1450     82   232 2409     9    15     6     5    82    3   109
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:   19 1450     82   232 2409     9    15     6     5    82    3   109
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.94 0.94 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.90 0.90 0.90
Lanes:       1.00 1.89 0.11 1.00 1.99 0.01 0.56 0.24 0.20 0.59 0.02 1.39
Final Sat.: 1805 3388     193 1805 3592     14 1007 432      360 1005    38 2365
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.01 0.43 0.43 0.13 0.67 0.67 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.08 0.08 0.05
Crit Moves: ****                    ****              ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.03 0.62 0.62 0.18 0.77 0.77 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.09 0.09 0.28
Volume/Cap: 0.40 0.70 0.70 0.70 0.87 0.87 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.87 0.87 0.16
Delay/Veh:   78.2 20.6 20.6 64.2 15.0 15.0 86.4 86.4 86.4 95.9 95.9 41.4
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 78.2 20.6 20.6 64.2 15.0 15.0 86.4 86.4 86.4 95.9 95.9 41.4
LOS by Move:    E    C      C     E    B     B      F    F     F     F    F     D
HCM2kAvgQ:      1   24     24    11   42    42     2     2     2     9    9     3
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Background PM Peak Hour     Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:51:26                  Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                              BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
                                  PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #32 Fassler Ave. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       4.3       Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.4]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Terra Nova Blvd.                     Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign        Stop Sign       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled
Rights:            Include          Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        1 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 0 0        0 0 0 1 0         0 0 1 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:     249     0     0     0    0     0     0   10    512     0    9     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 249      0     0     0    0     0     0   10    512     0    9     0
Added Vol:      6     0     0     0    0     0     0    0     14     0    0     0
PasserByVol:    0     0     0     0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
Initial Fut: 255      0     0     0    0     0     0   10    526     0    9     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
PHF Volume:   271     0     0     0    0     0     0   11    558     0   10     0
Reduct Vol:     0     0     0     0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
FinalVolume: 271      0     0     0    0     0     0   11    558     0   10     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 6.4 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 3.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 299 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 696 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    696 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.39 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    1.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 13.4 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:    B     *     *     *    *     *     *    *      *     *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *     *     *    *      *    *    *      *     *    *      *
ApproachDel:       13.4           xxxxxx           xxxxxx            xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          B                *                *                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Background PM Peak Hour     Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:51:26                 Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                              BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
                                  PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Level Of Service Computation Report
            2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #35 Oddstad Blvd. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):         100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.361
Loss Time (sec):        0                Average Delay (sec/veh):          10.4
Optimal Cycle:          0                Level Of Service:                    B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Oddstad Blvd.                      Terra Nova Blvd.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Stop Sign         Stop Sign        Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:           Include           Include           Include          Include
Min. Green:     0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0
Lanes:        1 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 1 0        0 1 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 4 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:     125 208       0    13 163    100   127     0    76     0     0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 125 208        0    13 163    100   127     0    76     0     0     0
Added Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0
PasserByVol:    0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0
Initial Fut: 125 208        0    13 163    100   127     0    76     0     0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:   139 231       0    14 181    111   141     0    84     0     0     0
Reduct Vol:     0    0      0     0    0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0
Reduced Vol: 139 231        0    14 181    111   141     0    84     0     0     0
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 139 231        0    14 181    111   141     0    84     0     0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:       1.00 1.00 0.00 0.09 1.19 0.72 1.00 0.25 0.75 0.00 1.00 0.00
Final Sat.:   585 638       0    58 750    496   520 153     455     0 510       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.24 0.36 xxxx 0.25 0.24 0.22 0.27 0.00 0.19 xxxx 0.00 xxxx
Crit Moves:       ****         ****             ****                   ****
Delay/Veh:   10.5 11.2    0.0 10.1 9.9     9.2 11.6 9.1      9.1   0.0 0.0     0.0
Delay Adj:   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 10.5 11.2     0.0 10.1 9.9     9.2 11.6 9.1      9.1   0.0 0.0     0.0
LOS by Move:    B    B      *     B    A     A     B     A     A     *     *     *
ApproachDel:      10.9               9.7              10.6           xxxxxx
Delay Adj:        1.00              1.00              1.00            xxxxx
ApprAdjDel:       10.9               9.7              10.6           xxxxxx
LOS by Appr:         B                 A                 B                 *
AllWayAvgQ:   0.3 0.5     0.5   0.3 0.3    0.3   0.3 0.1     0.1   0.0 0.0     0.0
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project AM Peak Hour         Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:52:46                 Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Route 1 & Linda Mar Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.444
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):        26.7
Optimal Cycle:         37                 Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound      West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Split Phase     Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include            Ovl             Ovl
Min. Green:      4   10     10     4   10     10     4    4     4    4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 0 1        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        8 430      76   263 161      41    75   48     2   53   43   489
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     8 430      76   263 161      41    75   48     2   53   43   489
Added Vol:       0   12      2     2    4      0     0    0     0    1    0     3
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0
Initial Fut:     8 442      78   265 165      41    75   48     2   54   43   492
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:      9 477      84   286 178      44    81   52     2   58   46   531
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol:     9 477      84   286 178      44    81   52     2   58   46   531
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     9 477      84   286 178      44    81   52     2   58   46   531
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.95 1.00 0.85 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.70 0.30 2.00 1.60 0.40 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.56 0.44 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3001      530 3502 2805     697 1805 1900 1615 1029 820 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.00 0.16 0.16 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.04 0.03 0.00 0.06 0.06 0.19
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                        ****
Green/Cycle: 0.15 0.36 0.36 0.18 0.39 0.39 0.10 0.10 0.26 0.24 0.24 0.42
Volume/Cap: 0.03 0.44 0.44 0.44 0.16 0.16 0.44 0.27 0.01 0.24 0.24 0.44
Delay/Veh:    35.9 24.7 24.7 36.7 20.1 20.1 44.0 42.3 27.7 31.2 31.2 20.9
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 35.9 24.7 24.7 36.7 20.1 20.1 44.0 42.3 27.7 31.2 31.2 20.9
LOS by Move:     D    C      C     D    C      C     D    D     C    C    C     C
HCM2kAvgQ:       0    7      7     4    2      2     3    2     0    3    3     7
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project AM Peak Hour         Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:52:46                   Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          130                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.641
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):          30.7
Optimal Cycle:         54                 Level Of Service:                    C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Route 1                          Fassler Ave.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Ovl
Min. Green:      5   20     20     4   25     25     4    4      4    4     4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 31 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:       20 1127      9   193 565      22    39    4     28   13    13   548
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    20 1127      9   193 565      22    39    4     28   13    13   548
Added Vol:      14    3      0    15    0     23     3    1      2    5     8    11
0:               0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut:    34 1130      9   208 565      45    42    5     30   18    21   559
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:     36 1181      9   217 590      47    44    5     31   19    22   584
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Reduced Vol:    36 1181      9   217 590      47    44    5     31   19    22   584
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    36 1181      9   217 590      47    44    5     31   19    22   584
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.92 0.94 0.94 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.98 0.98 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.98 0.02 2.00 1.85 0.15 0.55 0.06 0.39 0.46 0.54 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3578       28 3502 3307     263  955 114      682  857 1000 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.02 0.33 0.33 0.06 0.18 0.18 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.02 0.02 0.21
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                         ****              ****
Green/Cycle: 0.10 0.52 0.52 0.10 0.51 0.51 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.22 0.22 0.32
Volume/Cap: 0.19 0.64 0.64 0.64 0.35 0.35 0.64 0.64 0.64 0.10 0.10 0.64
Delay/Veh:    54.0 23.6 23.6 60.6 19.1 19.1 69.4 69.4 69.4 40.1 40.1 39.3
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 54.0 23.6 23.6 60.6 19.1 19.1 69.4 69.4 69.4 40.1 40.1 39.3
LOS by Move:     D    C      C     E    B      B     E    E      E    D     D     D
HCM2kAvgQ:       1   18     18     4    8      8     4    4      4    1     1    12
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project AM Peak Hour         Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:52:46                  Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #4 Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          152                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.708
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):         16.9
Optimal Cycle:         66                 Level Of Service:                   B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Rotue 1                      Reina Del Mar Avenue
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Ovl
Min. Green:      4   20     20     4   10     10     4    4     4     4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 1! 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        8 1795     35    78 779       8     3    6     3    35    4   155
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     8 1795     35    78 779       8     3    6     3    35    4   155
Added Vol:       0   16      1     0   38      0     0    0     0     0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0     0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:     8 1811     36    78 817       8     3    6     3    35    4   155
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
PHF Volume:      8 1865     37    80 841       8     3    6     3    36    4   160
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0     0     0    0     0
Reduced Vol:     8 1865     37    80 841       8     3    6     3    36    4   160
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     8 1865     37    80 841       8     3    6     3    36    4   160
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.87 0.87 0.87
Lanes:        1.00 1.96 0.04 1.00 1.98 0.02 0.25 0.50 0.25 0.30 0.03 1.67
Final Sat.: 1805 3529       70 1805 3571      35  453 907     453   498   57 2759
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.00 0.53 0.53 0.04 0.24 0.24 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.07 0.07 0.06
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                   ****        ****
Green/Cycle: 0.08 0.73 0.73 0.06 0.71 0.71 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.10 0.10 0.16
Volume/Cap: 0.06 0.72 0.72 0.72 0.33 0.33 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.72 0.72 0.36
Delay/Veh:    64.8 12.5 12.5 90.5 8.2        8.2 75.4 75.4 75.4 75.3 75.3 57.0
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 64.8 12.5 12.5 90.5 8.2          8.2 75.4 75.4 75.4 75.3 75.3 57.0
LOS by Move:     E    B      B     F    A      A     E    E     E     E    E     E
HCM2kAvgQ:       0   26     26     5    8      8     1    1     1     7    7     4
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project AM Peak Hour         Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:52:46                   Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                    AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #32 Fassler Ave. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       10.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.8]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Terra Nova Blvd.                      Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign          Stop Sign       Uncontrolled     Uncontrolled
Rights:            Include            Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        0 0 1! 0 0         0 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0        0 1 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 7:45-8:45 a.m.
Base Vol:     458     0      3      0    0     0     0    2    124    2     7     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 458      0      3      0    0     0     0    2    124    2     7     0
Added Vol:     16     0      0      0    0     0     0    0     14    0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut: 474      0      3      0    0     0     0    2    138    2     7     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:   509     0      3      0    0     0     0    2    148    2     8     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
FinalVolume: 509      0      3      0    0     0     0    2    148    2     8     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 6.4 6.5       6.2 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    4.1 xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 3.5 4.0       3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    2.2 xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol:   88    88     76 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      150 xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 918 806       990 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1443 xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    917 805      990 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1443 xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.56 0.00 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.00 xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:   xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        0.0 xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.5 xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      *    *     *     *    *      *    A     *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx 917 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx 3.5 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx       0.0 xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx 13.8 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.5 xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    B      *      *    *     *     *    *      *    A     *     *
ApproachDel:       13.8             xxxxxx           xxxxxx           xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          B                  *                *                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project AM Peak Hour         Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:52:46                 Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #35 Oddstad Blvd. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.222
Loss Time (sec):        0                 Average Delay (sec/veh):            8.7
Optimal Cycle:          0                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                      Terra Nova Blvd.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign         Stop Sign        Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include           Include          Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 1 0         0 1 0 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Aug 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:       69   96      0     4 173     109    43    0     35    0     0      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    69   96      0     4 173     109    43    0     35    0     0      0
Added Vol:       6    0      0     0    0      0     0    0     10    0     0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    75   96      0     4 173     109    43    0     45    0     0      0
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     83 107       0     4 192     121    48    0     50    0     0      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    83 107       0     4 192     121    48    0     50    0     0      0
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    83 107       0     4 192     121    48    0     50    0     0      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:        1.00 1.00 0.00 0.03 1.21 0.76 0.98 0.02 1.00 0.00 1.00 0.00
Final Sat.:    639 702       0    20 886     611  544    13    682    0 584        0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.13 0.15 xxxx 0.22 0.22 0.20 0.09 0.00 0.07 xxxx 0.00 xxxx
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                   ****
Delay/Veh:     9.0 8.6     0.0   9.0 8.9     8.2  9.4 9.4      8.0  0.0 0.0      0.0
Delay Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:    9.0 8.6     0.0   9.0 8.9     8.2  9.4 9.4      8.0  0.0 0.0      0.0
LOS by Move:     A    A      *     A    A      A     A    A      A    *     *      *
ApproachDel:        8.8               8.6               8.7           xxxxxx
Delay Adj:         1.00              1.00              1.00            xxxxx
ApprAdjDel:         8.8               8.6               8.7           xxxxxx
LOS by Appr:          A                 A                 A                 *
AllWayAvgQ:    0.1 0.2     0.2   0.3 0.2     0.2  0.1 0.1      0.1  0.0 0.0      0.0
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project AM Peak Hour        Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:52:46                   Page 11-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #36 Oddstad Blvd. & Site D/W
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       0.3        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 11.3]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                          Site D/W
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound         West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign          Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include            Include
Lanes:        0 1 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Aug 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        0 165      0      0 210      0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 165      0      0 210      0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Added Vol:       3    0     0      0    0    10     6    0      1      0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Initial Fut:     3 165      0      0 210     10     6    0      1      0    0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83
PHF Volume:      4 200      0      0 255     12     7    0      1      0    0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0      0    0     0
FinalVolume:     4 200      0      0 255     12     7    0      1      0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      6.4 6.5     6.2 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 267 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       468 468     261 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 1309 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      557 496     783 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:   1309 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      556 494     783 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.01 0.00 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     A    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *      *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 580 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue: 0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.0 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel: 7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 11.3 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      A    *     *      *    *     *     *    B      *      *    *     *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx             11.3             xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                B                  *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project PM Peak Hour         Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:53:47                 Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Route 1 & Linda Mar Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.586
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):        26.0
Optimal Cycle:         47                 Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound      West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Split Phase     Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include            Ovl             Ovl
Min. Green:      4   10     10     4   10     10     4    4     4    4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 0 1        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 23 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:       14 372      74   740 483     128  101    89     7  127   81   384
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    14 372      74   740 483     128  101    89     7  127   81   384
Added Vol:       0    7      1     3   21      0     0    0     0    2    0     4
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0
Initial Fut:    14 379      75   743 504     128  101    89     7  129   81   388
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99
PHF Volume:     14 382      76   750 509     129  102    90     7  130   82   392
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol:    14 382      76   750 509     129  102    90     7  130   82   392
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    14 382      76   750 509     129  102    90     7  130   82   392
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.95 1.00 0.85 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.67 0.33 2.00 1.59 0.41 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.61 0.39 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 2938      581 3502 2792     709 1805 1900 1615 1132 711 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.01 0.13 0.13 0.21 0.18 0.18 0.06 0.05 0.00 0.11 0.11 0.14
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.11 0.22 0.22 0.37 0.48 0.48 0.10 0.10 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.56
Volume/Cap: 0.07 0.59 0.59 0.59 0.38 0.38 0.59 0.49 0.02 0.59 0.59 0.25
Delay/Veh:    40.5 35.9 35.9 26.3 16.6 16.6 48.4 44.9 32.0 39.0 39.0 11.2
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 40.5 35.9 35.9 26.3 16.6 16.6 48.4 44.9 32.0 39.0 39.0 11.2
LOS by Move:     D    D      D     C    B      B     D    D     C    D    D     B
HCM2kAvgQ:       0    7      7     9    6      6     4    3     0    7    7     3
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project PM Peak Hour         Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:53:47                   Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          130                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.791
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):          32.8
Optimal Cycle:         81                 Level Of Service:                    C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Route 1                          Fassler Ave.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Ovl
Min. Green:      5   20     20     4   25     25     4    4      4    4     4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 3 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:       31 914      17   844 1541     48    58   14     41   38    17   268
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    31 914      17   844 1541     48    58   14     41   38    17   268
Added Vol:       6    2      0    18    0      9    43   13     27    4     3    15
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut:    37 916      17   862 1541     57  101    27     68   42    20   283
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
PHF Volume:     41 1012     19   952 1703     63  112    30     75   46    22   313
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Reduced Vol:    41 1012     19   952 1703     63  112    30     75   46    22   313
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    41 1012     19   952 1703     63  112    30     75   46    22   313
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.92 0.95 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.96 0.04 2.00 1.93 0.07 0.51 0.14 0.35 0.68 0.32 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3534       66 3502 3464     128   910 243     612 1245 593 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.02 0.29 0.29 0.27 0.49 0.49 0.12 0.12 0.12 0.04 0.04 0.11
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                         ****        ****
Green/Cycle: 0.05 0.36 0.36 0.34 0.65 0.65 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.05 0.05 0.39
Volume/Cap: 0.44 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.75 0.75 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.28
Delay/Veh:    63.2 40.5 40.5 42.1 16.7 16.7 67.4 67.4 67.4 98.9 98.9 27.2
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 63.2 40.5 40.5 42.1 16.7 16.7 67.4 67.4 67.4 98.9 98.9 27.2
LOS by Move:     E    D      D     D    B      B     E    E      E    F     F     C
HCM2kAvgQ:       2   20     20    17   24     24    10   10     10    4     4     5
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project PM Peak Hour         Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:53:47                  Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #4 Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          152                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.847
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):         22.5
Optimal Cycle:        104                 Level Of Service:                   C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Rotue 1                      Reina Del Mar Avenue
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Ovl
Min. Green:      4   20     20     4   10     10     4    4      4    4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 1! 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 29 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:       18 1340     79   222 2291      9    14    6      5   79    3   104
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    18 1340     79   222 2291      9    14    6      5   79    3   104
Added Vol:       0   61      0     0   27      0     0    0      0    0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0
Initial Fut:    18 1401     79   222 2318      9    14    6      5   79    3   104
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:     19 1462     82   232 2420      9    15    6      5   82    3   109
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol:    19 1462     82   232 2420      9    15    6      5   82    3   109
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    19 1462     82   232 2420      9    15    6      5   82    3   109
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.94 0.94 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.90 0.90 0.90
Lanes:        1.00 1.89 0.11 1.00 1.99 0.01 0.56 0.24 0.20 0.59 0.02 1.39
Final Sat.: 1805 3390      191 1805 3592      14 1007 432      360 1005   38 2365
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.01 0.43 0.43 0.13 0.67 0.67 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.08 0.08 0.05
Crit Moves: ****                     ****              ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.03 0.62 0.62 0.18 0.77 0.77 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.09 0.09 0.28
Volume/Cap: 0.40 0.70 0.70 0.70 0.87 0.87 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.87 0.87 0.17
Delay/Veh:    78.2 20.6 20.6 64.6 15.1 15.1 86.4 86.4 86.4 96.6 96.6 41.6
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 78.2 20.6 20.6 64.6 15.1 15.1 86.4 86.4 86.4 96.6 96.6 41.6
LOS by Move:     E    C      C     E    B      B     F    F      F    F    F     D
HCM2kAvgQ:       1   24     24    11   43     43     2    2      2    9    9     3
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #32 Fassler Ave. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       4.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.8]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Terra Nova Blvd.                     Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign       Uncontrolled     Uncontrolled
Rights:            Include           Include          Include          Include
Lanes:        1 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0        0 0 1 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:     249     0     0      0    0     0     0   10    512    0    9      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 249      0     0      0    0     0     0   10    512    0    9      0
Added Vol:     17     0     0      0    0     0     0    0     24    0    0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0    0      0
Initial Fut: 266      0     0      0    0     0     0   10    536    0    9      0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
PHF Volume:   282     0     0      0    0     0     0   11    569    0   10      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0    0      0
FinalVolume: 282      0     0      0    0     0     0   11    569    0   10      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 6.4 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 3.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 305 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 691 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    691 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.41 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    2.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 13.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     B    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *    *    *      *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *    *    *      *
ApproachDel:       13.8            xxxxxx           xxxxxx           xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          B                 *                *                *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project PM Peak Hour         Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:53:47                 Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #35 Oddstad Blvd. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.364
Loss Time (sec):        0                 Average Delay (sec/veh):          10.5
Optimal Cycle:          0                 Level Of Service:                    B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                      Terra Nova Blvd.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign        Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include           Include          Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 1 0        0 1 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 4 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:      125 208       0    13 163     100  127     0     76    0     0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 125 208         0    13 163     100  127     0     76    0     0     0
Added Vol:      14    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     11    0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut: 139 208         0    13 163     100  127     0     87    0     0     0
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:    154 231       0    14 181     111  141     0     96    0     0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Reduced Vol: 154 231         0    14 181     111  141     0     96    0     0     0
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 154 231         0    14 181     111  141     0     96    0     0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:        1.00 1.00 0.00 0.09 1.19 0.72 1.00 0.19 0.81 0.00 1.00 0.00
Final Sat.:    581 634       0    58 742     491  518 114      495    0 505       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.27 0.36 xxxx 0.25 0.24 0.23 0.27 0.00 0.19 xxxx 0.00 xxxx
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                   ****
Delay/Veh:    10.8 11.3    0.0 10.2 10.0     9.3 11.6 9.2      9.2  0.0 0.0     0.0
Delay Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 10.8 11.3      0.0 10.2 10.0     9.3 11.6 9.2      9.2  0.0 0.0     0.0
LOS by Move:     B    B      *     B    A      A    B     A      A    *     *     *
ApproachDel:       11.1               9.7              10.7           xxxxxx
Delay Adj:         1.00              1.00              1.00            xxxxx
ApprAdjDel:        11.1               9.7              10.7           xxxxxx
LOS by Appr:          B                 A                 B                 *
AllWayAvgQ:    0.3 0.5     0.5   0.3 0.3     0.3  0.3 0.2      0.2  0.0 0.0     0.0
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project PM Peak Hour        Wed Feb 23, 2011 15:53:47                   Page 11-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #36 Oddstad Blvd. & Site D/W
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       0.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 11.7]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                          Site D/W
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound         West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign          Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include            Include
Lanes:        0 1 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 4 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:        0 210      0      0 240      0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 210      0      0 240      0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Added Vol:       3    0     0      0    0    11    14    0      3      0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Initial Fut:     3 210      0      0 240     11    14    0      3      0    0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
PHF Volume:      3 232      0      0 265     12    15    0      3      0    0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0      0    0     0
FinalVolume:     3 232      0      0 265     12    15    0      3      0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      6.4 6.5     6.2 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 277 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       510 510     271 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 1297 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      527 469     772 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:   1297 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      526 468     772 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.03 0.00 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     A    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *      *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 557 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue: 0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.1 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel: 7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 11.7 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      A    *     *      *    *     *     *    B      *      *    *     *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx             11.7             xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                B                  *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
E+P AM Peak Hour             Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:24:23                 Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                EXISTING + PROJECT
                                AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Route 1 & Linda Mar Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.439
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):        26.7
Optimal Cycle:         37                 Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound      West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Split Phase     Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include            Ovl             Ovl
Min. Green:      4   10     10     4   10     10     4    4     4    4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 0 1        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        8 430      76   263 161      41    75   48     2   53   43   489
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     8 430      76   263 161      41    75   48     2   53   43   489
Added Vol:       0    0      2     0    0      0     0    0     0    1    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0
Initial Fut:     8 430      78   263 161      41    75   48     2   54   43   489
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:      9 464      84   284 174      44    81   52     2   58   46   528
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol:     9 464      84   284 174      44    81   52     2   58   46   528
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     9 464      84   284 174      44    81   52     2   58   46   528
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.95 1.00 0.85 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.69 0.31 2.00 1.59 0.41 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.56 0.44 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 2985      542 3502 2791     711 1805 1900 1615 1029 820 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.00 0.16 0.16 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.04 0.03 0.00 0.06 0.06 0.19
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                        ****
Green/Cycle: 0.15 0.35 0.35 0.18 0.39 0.39 0.10 0.10 0.26 0.24 0.24 0.42
Volume/Cap: 0.03 0.44 0.44 0.44 0.16 0.16 0.44 0.27 0.01 0.24 0.24 0.44
Delay/Veh:    36.0 24.9 24.9 36.6 20.2 20.2 43.9 42.2 27.7 31.0 31.0 20.7
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 36.0 24.9 24.9 36.6 20.2 20.2 43.9 42.2 27.7 31.0 31.0 20.7
LOS by Move:     D    C      C     D    C      C     D    D     C    C    C     C
HCM2kAvgQ:       0    7      7     4    2      2     3    2     0    3    3     7
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
E+P AM Peak Hour             Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:24:23                   Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                EXISTING + PROJECT
                                AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          130                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.634
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):          30.1
Optimal Cycle:         54                 Level Of Service:                    C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Route 1                          Fassler Ave.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Ovl
Min. Green:      5   20     20     4   25     25     4    4      4    4     4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 31 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:       20 1127      9   193 565      22    39    4     28   13    13   548
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    20 1127      9   193 565      22    39    4     28   13    13   548
Added Vol:       0    0      0    10    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     6
0:               0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut:    20 1127      9   203 565      22    39    4     28   13    13   554
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:     21 1178      9   212 590      23    41    4     29   14    14   579
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Reduced Vol:    21 1178      9   212 590      23    41    4     29   14    14   579
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    21 1178      9   212 590      23    41    4     29   14    14   579
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.92 0.94 0.94 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.98 0.98 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.98 0.02 2.00 1.93 0.07 0.55 0.06 0.39 0.50 0.50 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3578       29 3502 3454     134  962    99    690  927 927 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.01 0.33 0.33 0.06 0.17 0.17 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.01 0.01 0.20
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                         ****              ****
Green/Cycle: 0.10 0.52 0.52 0.10 0.51 0.51 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.23 0.23 0.32
Volume/Cap: 0.11 0.63 0.63 0.63 0.33 0.33 0.63 0.63 0.63 0.06 0.06 0.63
Delay/Veh:    53.2 23.1 23.1 60.5 18.7 18.7 69.9 69.9 69.9 39.6 39.6 39.1
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 53.2 23.1 23.1 60.5 18.7 18.7 69.9 69.9 69.9 39.6 39.6 39.1
LOS by Move:     D    C      C     E    B      B     E    E      E    D     D     D
HCM2kAvgQ:       1   18     18     4    7      7     4    4      4    1     1    12
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
E+P AM Peak Hour             Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:24:23                  Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                EXISTING + PROJECT
                                AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #4 Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          152                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.705
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):         17.0
Optimal Cycle:         65                 Level Of Service:                   B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Rotue 1                      Reina Del Mar Avenue
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Ovl
Min. Green:      4   20     20     4   10     10     4    4      4    4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 1! 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        8 1795     35    78 779       8     3    6      3   35    4   155
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     8 1795     35    78 779       8     3    6      3   35    4   155
Added Vol:       0    6      0     0   10      0     0    0      0    0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0
Initial Fut:     8 1801     35    78 789       8     3    6      3   35    4   155
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
PHF Volume:      8 1855     36    80 813       8     3    6      3   36    4   160
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol:     8 1855     36    80 813       8     3    6      3   36    4   160
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     8 1855     36    80 813       8     3    6      3   36    4   160
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.87 0.87 0.87
Lanes:        1.00 1.96 0.04 1.00 1.98 0.02 0.25 0.50 0.25 0.30 0.03 1.67
Final Sat.: 1805 3531       69 1805 3570      36   453 907     453  498   57 2759
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.00 0.53 0.53 0.04 0.23 0.23 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.07 0.07 0.06
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                   ****        ****
Green/Cycle: 0.08 0.73 0.73 0.06 0.71 0.71 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.10 0.10 0.16
Volume/Cap: 0.06 0.72 0.72 0.72 0.32 0.32 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.72 0.72 0.36
Delay/Veh:    64.5 12.5 12.5 90.0 8.3        8.3 75.4 75.4 75.4 74.9 74.9 56.9
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 64.5 12.5 12.5 90.0 8.3          8.3 75.4 75.4 75.4 74.9 74.9 56.9
LOS by Move:     E    B      B     F    A      A     E    E      E    E    E     E
HCM2kAvgQ:       0   26     26     5    7      7     1    1      1    7    7     4
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
E+P AM Peak Hour             Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:24:23                   Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                EXISTING + PROJECT
                                AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #32 Fassler Ave. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       10.3        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.5]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Terra Nova Blvd.                      Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign          Stop Sign       Uncontrolled     Uncontrolled
Rights:            Include            Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        0 0 1! 0 0         0 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0        0 1 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 7:45-8:45 a.m.
Base Vol:     458     0      3      0    0     0     0    2    124    2     7     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 458      0      3      0    0     0     0    2    124    2     7     0
Added Vol:       6    0      0      0    0     0     0    0     10    0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut: 464      0      3      0    0     0     0    2    134    2     7     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:   498     0      3      0    0     0     0    2    144    2     8     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
FinalVolume: 498      0      3      0    0     0     0    2    144    2     8     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 6.4 6.5       6.2 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    4.1 xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 3.5 4.0       3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    2.2 xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol:   86    86     74 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      146 xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 920 808       993 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1448 xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    919 807      993 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1448 xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.54 0.00 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.00 xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:   xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        0.0 xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.5 xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      *    *     *     *    *      *    A     *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx 920 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx 3.4 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx       0.0 xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx 13.5 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.5 xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    B      *      *    *     *     *    *      *    A     *     *
ApproachDel:       13.5             xxxxxx           xxxxxx           xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          B                  *                *                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
E+P AM Peak Hour             Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:24:23                 Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                EXISTING + PROJECT
                                AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #35 Oddstad Blvd. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.222
Loss Time (sec):        0                 Average Delay (sec/veh):            8.7
Optimal Cycle:          0                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                      Terra Nova Blvd.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign         Stop Sign        Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include           Include          Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 1 0        0 1 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Aug 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:       69   96      0     4 173     109    43    0     35    0     0      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    69   96      0     4 173     109    43    0     35    0     0      0
Added Vol:       6    0      0     0    0      0     0    0     10    0     0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    75   96      0     4 173     109    43    0     45    0     0      0
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     83 107       0     4 192     121    48    0     50    0     0      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    83 107       0     4 192     121    48    0     50    0     0      0
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    83 107       0     4 192     121    48    0     50    0     0      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:        1.00 1.00 0.00 0.03 1.21 0.76 0.98 0.02 1.00 0.00 1.00 0.00
Final Sat.:    639 702       0    20 886     611  544    13    682    0 584        0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.13 0.15 xxxx 0.22 0.22 0.20 0.09 0.00 0.07 xxxx 0.00 xxxx
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                   ****
Delay/Veh:     9.0 8.6     0.0   9.0 8.9     8.2  9.4 9.4      8.0  0.0 0.0      0.0
Delay Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:    9.0 8.6     0.0   9.0 8.9     8.2  9.4 9.4      8.0  0.0 0.0      0.0
LOS by Move:     A    A      *     A    A      A     A    A      A    *     *      *
ApproachDel:        8.8               8.6               8.7           xxxxxx
Delay Adj:         1.00              1.00              1.00            xxxxx
ApprAdjDel:         8.8               8.6               8.7           xxxxxx
LOS by Appr:          A                 A                 A                 *
AllWayAvgQ:    0.1 0.2     0.2   0.3 0.2     0.2  0.1 0.1      0.1  0.0 0.0      0.0
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
E+P AM Peak Hour            Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:24:23                   Page 11-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               EXISTING + PROJECT
                               AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #36 Oddstad Blvd. & Site D/W
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       0.3        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 11.3]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                          Site D/W
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include            Include
Lanes:        0 1 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Aug 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        0 165      0      0 210      0     0    0      0     0     0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 165      0      0 210      0     0    0      0     0     0     0
Added Vol:       3    0     0      0    0    10     6    0      1     0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Initial Fut:     3 165      0      0 210     10     6    0      1     0     0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83
PHF Volume:      4 200      0      0 255     12     7    0      1     0     0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0     0     0
FinalVolume:     4 200      0      0 255     12     7    0      1      0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      6.4 6.5     6.2 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 267 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       468 468     261 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 1309 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      557 496     783 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:   1309 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      556 494     783 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.01 0.00 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     A    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *     *     *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 580 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue: 0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.0 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel: 7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 11.3 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      A    *     *      *    *     *     *    B      *     *     *     *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx             11.3             xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                B                  *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
E+P PM Peak Hour             Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:26:20                 Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                EXISTING + PROJECT
                                PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Route 1 & Linda Mar Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.583
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):        26.0
Optimal Cycle:         47                 Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound      West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R       L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Split Phase     Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include            Ovl             Ovl
Min. Green:      4   10     10     4   10     10     4    4     4    4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 0 1        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 23 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:       14 372      74   740 483     128   101   89     7  127   81   384
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    14 372      74   740 483     128  101    89     7  127   81   384
Added Vol:       0    0      1     0    0      0     0    0     0    2    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0
Initial Fut:    14 372      75   740 483     128  101    89     7  129   81   384
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99
PHF Volume:     14 375      76   747 487     129  102    90     7  130   82   387
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol:    14 375      76   747 487     129  102    90     7  130   82   387
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    14 375      76   747 487     129  102    90     7  130   82   387
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.95 1.00 0.85 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.66 0.34 2.00 1.58 0.42 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.61 0.39 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 2929      591 3502 2765     733 1805 1900 1615 1132 711 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.01 0.13 0.13 0.21 0.18 0.18 0.06 0.05 0.00 0.11 0.11 0.14
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.11 0.22 0.22 0.37 0.48 0.48 0.10 0.10 0.21 0.20 0.20 0.56
Volume/Cap: 0.07 0.58 0.58 0.58 0.37 0.37 0.58 0.49 0.02 0.58 0.58 0.24
Delay/Veh:    40.2 36.0 36.0 26.2 16.7 16.7 48.2 44.8 31.7 38.8 38.8 11.1
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 40.2 36.0 36.0 26.2 16.7 16.7 48.2 44.8 31.7 38.8 38.8 11.1
LOS by Move:     D    D      D     C    B      B     D    D     C    D    D     B
HCM2kAvgQ:       0    7      7     9    6      6     4    3     0    7    7     3
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
E+P PM Peak Hour             Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:26:20                   Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                EXISTING + PROJECT
                                PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          130                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.726
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):          27.3
Optimal Cycle:         67                 Level Of Service:                    C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Route 1                          Fassler Ave.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Ovl
Min. Green:      5   20     20     4   25     25     4    4      4    4     4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 3 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:       31 914      17   844 1541     48    58   14     41   38    17   268
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    31 914      17   844 1541     48    58   14     41   38    17   268
Added Vol:       0    0      0    10    0      0     0    0      0    0     0    12
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut:    31 914      17   854 1541     48    58   14     41   38    17   280
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
PHF Volume:     34 1010     19   944 1703     53    64   15     45   42    19   309
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Reduced Vol:    34 1010     19   944 1703     53    64   15     45   42    19   309
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    34 1010     19   944 1703     53    64   15     45   42    19   309
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.92 0.95 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.96 0.04 2.00 1.94 0.06 0.52 0.12 0.36 0.69 0.31 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3533       66 3502 3487     109  904 218      639 1269 568 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.02 0.29 0.29 0.27 0.49 0.49 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.03 0.03 0.11
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                    ****
Green/Cycle: 0.06 0.39 0.39 0.37 0.71 0.71 0.10 0.10 0.10 0.05 0.05 0.42
Volume/Cap: 0.34 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.69 0.69 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.26
Delay/Veh:    61.1 35.4 35.4 37.3 11.6 11.6 71.3 71.3 71.3 88.2 88.2 24.9
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 61.1 35.4 35.4 37.3 11.6 11.6 71.3 71.3 71.3 88.2 88.2 24.9
LOS by Move:     E    D      D     D    B      B     E    E      E    F     F     C
HCM2kAvgQ:       1   18     18    16   20     20     6    6      6    4     4     5
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                EXISTING + PROJECT
                                PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #4 Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          152                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.842
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):         22.3
Optimal Cycle:        102                 Level Of Service:                   C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Rotue 1                      Reina Del Mar Avenue
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected        Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Ovl
Min. Green:      4   20     20     4   10     10     4    4      4    4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 1! 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 29 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:       18 1340     79   222 2291      9    14    6      5   79    3   104
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    18 1340     79   222 2291      9    14    6      5   79    3   104
Added Vol:       0   12      0     0   10      0     0    0      0    0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0
Initial Fut:    18 1352     79   222 2301      9    14    6      5   79    3   104
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:     19 1411     82   232 2402      9    15    6      5   82    3   109
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol:    19 1411     82   232 2402      9    15    6      5   82    3   109
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    19 1411     82   232 2402      9    15    6      5   82    3   109
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.94 0.94 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.90 0.90 0.90
Lanes:        1.00 1.89 0.11 1.00 1.99 0.01 0.56 0.24 0.20 0.59 0.02 1.39
Final Sat.: 1805 3383      198 1805 3592      14 1007 432      360 1005   38 2365
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.01 0.42 0.42 0.13 0.67 0.67 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.08 0.08 0.05
Crit Moves: ****                     ****              ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.03 0.61 0.61 0.19 0.77 0.77 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.09 0.09 0.28
Volume/Cap: 0.40 0.68 0.68 0.68 0.86 0.86 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.86 0.86 0.16
Delay/Veh:    78.2 20.6 20.6 63.1 14.8 14.8 86.4 86.4 86.4 95.4 95.4 41.0
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 78.2 20.6 20.6 63.1 14.8 14.8 86.4 86.4 86.4 95.4 95.4 41.0
LOS by Move:     E    C      C     E    B      B     F    F      F    F    F     D
HCM2kAvgQ:       1   23     23    11   42     42     2    2      2    9    9     3
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
E+P PM Peak Hour            Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:26:20                   Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               EXISTING + PROJECT
                               PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #32 Fassler Ave. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       4.4        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.5]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Terra Nova Blvd.                     Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign       Uncontrolled     Uncontrolled
Rights:            Include           Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        1 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0        0 0 1 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:     249     0     0      0    0     0     0   10    512    0     9     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 249      0     0      0    0     0     0   10    512    0     9     0
Added Vol:     12     0     0      0    0     0     0    0     10    0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut: 261      0     0      0    0     0     0   10    522    0     9     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
PHF Volume:   277     0     0      0    0     0     0   11    554    0    10     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
FinalVolume: 277      0     0      0    0     0     0   11    554    0    10     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 6.4 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 3.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 297 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 698 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    698 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.40 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    1.9 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 13.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     B    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *    *     *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *    *     *     *
ApproachDel:       13.5            xxxxxx           xxxxxx           xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          B                 *                *                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
E+P PM Peak Hour             Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:26:20                 Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                                EXISTING + PROJECT
                                PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #35 Oddstad Blvd. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.364
Loss Time (sec):        0                 Average Delay (sec/veh):          10.5
Optimal Cycle:          0                 Level Of Service:                    B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                      Terra Nova Blvd.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign        Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include           Include          Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 1 0        0 1 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 4 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:      125 208       0    13 163     100  127     0     76    0     0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 125 208         0    13 163     100  127     0     76    0     0     0
Added Vol:      14    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     11    0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut: 139 208         0    13 163     100  127     0     87    0     0     0
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:    154 231       0    14 181     111  141     0     96    0     0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Reduced Vol: 154 231         0    14 181     111  141     0     96    0     0     0
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 154 231         0    14 181     111  141     0     96    0     0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:        1.00 1.00 0.00 0.09 1.19 0.72 1.00 0.19 0.81 0.00 1.00 0.00
Final Sat.:    581 634       0    58 742     491  518 114      495    0 505       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.27 0.36 xxxx 0.25 0.24 0.23 0.27 0.00 0.19 xxxx 0.00 xxxx
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                   ****
Delay/Veh:    10.8 11.3    0.0 10.2 10.0     9.3 11.6 9.2      9.2  0.0 0.0     0.0
Delay Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 10.8 11.3      0.0 10.2 10.0     9.3 11.6 9.2      9.2  0.0 0.0     0.0
LOS by Move:     B    B      *     B    A      A    B     A      A    *     *     *
ApproachDel:       11.1               9.7              10.7           xxxxxx
Delay Adj:         1.00              1.00              1.00            xxxxx
ApprAdjDel:        11.1               9.7              10.7           xxxxxx
LOS by Appr:          B                 A                 B                 *
AllWayAvgQ:    0.3 0.5     0.5   0.3 0.3     0.3  0.3 0.2      0.2  0.0 0.0     0.0
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
E+P PM Peak Hour            Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:26:20                   Page 11-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                               EXISTING + PROJECT
                               PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #36 Oddstad Blvd. & Site D/W
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       0.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 11.7]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                          Site D/W
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include            Include
Lanes:        0 1 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 4 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:        0 210      0      0 240      0     0    0      0     0     0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 210      0      0 240      0     0    0      0     0     0     0
Added Vol:       3    0     0      0    0    11    14    0      3     0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Initial Fut:     3 210      0      0 240     11    14    0      3     0     0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
PHF Volume:      3 232      0      0 265     12    15    0      3     0     0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0     0     0
FinalVolume:     3 232      0      0 265     12    15    0      3      0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      6.4 6.5     6.2 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 277 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       510 510     271 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 1297 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      527 469     772 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:   1297 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      526 468     772 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.03 0.00 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     A    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *      *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 557 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue: 0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.1 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel: 7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 11.7 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      A    *     *      *    *     *     *    B      *     *     *     *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx             11.7             xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                B                  *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cumulative AM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:32:01                 Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         NEAR-TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Route 1 & Linda Mar Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.446
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):        26.7
Optimal Cycle:         38                 Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Ovl              Ovl
Min. Green:      4   10     10     4   10     10    4    4     4     4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 0 1        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        8 430      76   263 161      41   75   48     2    53   43   489
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     8 430      76   263 161      41   75   48     2    53   43   489
Added Vol:       0   13      0     4    7      0    0    0     0     0    0     8
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:     8 443      76   267 168      41   75   48     2    53   43   497
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:      9 478      82   288 181      44   81   52     2    57   46   537
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0     0    0     0
Reduced Vol:     9 478      82   288 181      44   81   52     2    57   46   537
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     9 478      82   288 181      44   81   52     2    57   46   537
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.95 1.00 0.85 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.71 0.29 2.00 1.61 0.39 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.55 0.45 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3014      517 3502 2818     688 1805 1900 1615 1021 828 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.00 0.16 0.16 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.04 0.03 0.00 0.06 0.06 0.19
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                        ****
Green/Cycle: 0.15 0.36 0.36 0.18 0.39 0.39 0.10 0.10 0.26 0.24 0.24 0.42
Volume/Cap: 0.03 0.45 0.45 0.45 0.17 0.17 0.45 0.27 0.01 0.23 0.23 0.45
Delay/Veh:    36.0 24.9 24.9 36.7 20.2 20.2 44.1 42.3 27.8 31.0 31.0 20.8
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 36.0 24.9 24.9 36.7 20.2 20.2 44.1 42.3 27.8 31.0 31.0 20.8
LOS by Move:     D    C      C     D    C      C    D    D     C     C    C     C
HCM2kAvgQ:       0    7      7     4    2      2    3    2     0     3    3     7
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cumulative AM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:32:01                   Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         NEAR-TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          130                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.655
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):          31.5
Optimal Cycle:         56                 Level Of Service:                    C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Route 1                          Fassler Ave.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Ovl
Min. Green:      5   20     20     4   25     25    4     4      4    4     4      4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 31 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:       20 1127      9   193 565      22   39     4     28   13    13   548
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    20 1127      9   193 565      22   39     4     28   13    13   548
Added Vol:      15    8      0     9    2     26    8     1      3    6     8    32
0:               0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    35 1135      9   202 567      48   47     5     31   19    21   580
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:     37 1186      9   211 592      50   49     5     32   20    22   606
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    37 1186      9   211 592      50   49     5     32   20    22   606
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    37 1186      9   211 592      50   49     5     32   20    22   606
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.92 0.94 0.94 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.98 0.98 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.98 0.02 2.00 1.84 0.16 0.57 0.06 0.37 0.48 0.52 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3578       28 3502 3288     278  993 106      655  882 975 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.02 0.33 0.33 0.06 0.18 0.18 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.02 0.02 0.21
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                          ****
Green/Cycle: 0.10 0.51 0.51 0.09 0.50 0.50 0.08 0.08 0.08 0.23 0.23 0.33
Volume/Cap: 0.20 0.65 0.65 0.65 0.36 0.36 0.65 0.65 0.65 0.10 0.10 0.65
Delay/Veh:    54.3 24.6 24.6 61.8 20.0 20.0 69.7 69.7 69.7 39.1 39.1 39.3
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 54.3 24.6 24.6 61.8 20.0 20.0 69.7 69.7 69.7 39.1 39.1 39.3
LOS by Move:     D    C      C     E    C      C    E     E      E    D     D      D
HCM2kAvgQ:       1   18     18     4    8      8    5     5      5    1     1     12
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cumulative AM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:32:01                 Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         NEAR-TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #4 Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          152                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.721
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):        17.3
Optimal Cycle:         68                 Level Of Service:                  B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Rotue 1                     Reina Del Mar Avenue
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include          Include           Ovl
Min. Green:      4   20     20     4   10     10    4    4      4    4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0       0 0 1! 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        8 1795     35    78 779       8    3    6      3   35    4   155
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     8 1795     35    78 779       8    3    6      3   35    4   155
Added Vol:       0   42      7     1   35      0    0    0      0    2    0     2
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0      0    0    0     0
Initial Fut:     8 1837     42    79 814       8    3    6      3   37    4   157
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
PHF Volume:      8 1892     43    81 838       8    3    6      3   38    4   162
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0      0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol:     8 1892     43    81 838       8    3    6      3   38    4   162
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     8 1892     43    81 838       8    3    6      3   38    4   162
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.87 0.87 0.87
Lanes:        1.00 1.96 0.04 1.00 1.98 0.02 0.25 0.50 0.25 0.31 0.03 1.66
Final Sat.: 1805 3519       80 1805 3571      35  453 907     453  514   56 2749
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.00 0.54 0.54 0.05 0.23 0.23 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.07 0.07 0.06
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                  ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.08 0.73 0.73 0.06 0.71 0.71 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.10 0.10 0.16
Volume/Cap: 0.06 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.33 0.33 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.73 0.73 0.36
Delay/Veh:    64.8 12.9 12.9 92.4 8.2        8.2 75.4 75.4 75.4 76.1 76.1 57.0
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 64.8 12.9 12.9 92.4 8.2          8.2 75.4 75.4 75.4 76.1 76.1 57.0
LOS by Move:     E    B      B     F    A      A    E    E      E    E    E     E
HCM2kAvgQ:       0   27     27     5    8      8    1    1      1    7    7     4
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cumulative AM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:32:01                   Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         NEAR-TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                    AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #32 Fassler Ave. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       10.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.6]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Terra Nova Blvd.                      Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign          Stop Sign       Uncontrolled     Uncontrolled
Rights:            Include            Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        0 0 1! 0 0         0 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0        0 1 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 7:45-8:45 a.m.
Base Vol:     458     0      3      0    0     0     0    2    124    2     7     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 458      0      3      0    0     0     0    2    124    2     7     0
Added Vol:     11     0      0      0    0     0     0    0      7    0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut: 469      0      3      0    0     0     0    2    131    2     7     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:   504     0      3      0    0     0     0    2    141    2     8     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
FinalVolume: 504      0      3      0    0     0     0    2    141    2     8     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 6.4 6.5       6.2 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    4.1 xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 3.5 4.0       3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    2.2 xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol:   84    84     73 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      143 xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 922 810       995 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1452 xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    921 808      995 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1452 xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.55 0.00 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.00 xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:   xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        0.0 xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.5 xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      *    *     *     *    *      *    A     *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx 922 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx 3.4 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx       0.0 xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx 13.6 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.5 xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    B      *      *    *     *     *    *      *    A     *     *
ApproachDel:       13.6             xxxxxx           xxxxxx           xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          B                  *                *                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cumulative AM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:32:01                 Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         NEAR-TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                   AM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #35 Oddstad Blvd. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.220
Loss Time (sec):        0                 Average Delay (sec/veh):            8.6
Optimal Cycle:          0                 Level Of Service:                     A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                      Terra Nova Blvd.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign        Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include           Include          Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 1 0        0 1 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Aug 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:       69   96      0     4 173     109   43     0     35    0     0      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    69   96      0     4 173     109   43     0     35    0     0      0
Added Vol:       1    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Initial Fut:    70   96      0     4 173     109   43     0     35    0     0      0
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     78 107       0     4 192     121   48     0     39    0     0      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0      0
Reduced Vol:    78 107       0     4 192     121   48     0     39    0     0      0
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    78 107       0     4 192     121   48     0     39    0     0      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:        1.00 1.00 0.00 0.03 1.21 0.76 1.00 0.10 0.90 0.00 1.00 0.00
Final Sat.:    644 707       0    20 893     618  557    69    605    0 588        0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.12 0.15 xxxx 0.22 0.22 0.20 0.09 0.00 0.06 xxxx 0.00 xxxx
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                   ****
Delay/Veh:     8.9 8.6     0.0   9.0 8.8     8.1  9.3 8.0      8.0  0.0 0.0      0.0
Delay Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:    8.9 8.6     0.0   9.0 8.8     8.1  9.3 8.0      8.0  0.0 0.0      0.0
LOS by Move:     A    A      *     A    A      A    A     A      A    *     *      *
ApproachDel:        8.7               8.5               8.7           xxxxxx
Delay Adj:         1.00              1.00              1.00            xxxxx
ApprAdjDel:         8.7               8.5               8.7           xxxxxx
LOS by Appr:          A                 A                 A                 *
AllWayAvgQ:    0.1 0.2     0.2   0.3 0.2     0.2  0.1 0.1      0.1  0.0 0.0      0.0
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cumulative PM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:33:04                 Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         NEAR-TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Route 1 & Linda Mar Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.588
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):        25.9
Optimal Cycle:         47                 Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Ovl              Ovl
Min. Green:      4   10     10     4   10     10    4    4     4     4    4      4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 0 1        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 23 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:       14 372      74   740 483     128  101   89     7   127   81   384
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    14 372      74   740 483     128  101   89     7   127   81   384
Added Vol:       0   10      1    11   22      0    0    0     0     0    0     11
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Initial Fut:    14 382      75   751 505     128  101   89     7   127   81   395
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99
PHF Volume:     14 385      76   758 510     129  102   90     7   128   82   399
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Reduced Vol:    14 385      76   758 510     129  102   90     7   128   82   399
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    14 385      76   758 510     129  102   90     7   128   82   399
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.95 1.00 0.85 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.67 0.33 2.00 1.60 0.40 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.61 0.39 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 2942      578 3502 2794     708 1805 1900 1615 1125 718 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.01 0.13 0.13 0.22 0.18 0.18 0.06 0.05 0.00 0.11 0.11 0.14
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.11 0.22 0.22 0.37 0.48 0.48 0.10 0.10 0.20 0.19 0.19 0.56
Volume/Cap: 0.07 0.59 0.59 0.59 0.38 0.38 0.59 0.49 0.02 0.59 0.59 0.25
Delay/Veh:    40.4 35.9 35.9 26.2 16.4 16.4 48.5 45.0 32.0 39.3 39.3 11.3
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 40.4 35.9 35.9 26.2 16.4 16.4 48.5 45.0 32.0 39.3 39.3 11.3
LOS by Move:     D    D      D     C    B      B    D    D     C     D    D      B
HCM2kAvgQ:       0    7      7    10    6      6    4    3     0     7    7      4
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cumulative PM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:33:04                  Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         NEAR-TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          130                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.806
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):         33.6
Optimal Cycle:         85                 Level Of Service:                   C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Route 1                         Fassler Ave.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include          Include            Ovl
Min. Green:      5   20     20     4   25     25    4    4      4    4     4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0       0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 3 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:       31 914      17   844 1541     48   58   14     41   38    17   268
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    31 914      17   844 1541     48   58   14     41   38    17   268
Added Vol:       6    7      3    32    8     12   47   15     28    6     4    14
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut:    37 921      20   876 1549     60  105   29     69   44    21   282
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
PHF Volume:     41 1018     22   968 1712     66  116   32     76   49    23   312
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0      0    0     0     0
Reduced Vol:    41 1018     22   968 1712     66  116   32     76   49    23   312
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    41 1018     22   968 1712     66  116   32     76   49    23   312
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.92 0.94 0.94 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.96 0.04 2.00 1.93 0.07 0.52 0.14 0.34 0.68 0.32 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3523       76 3502 3455     134  914 252     601 1244 594 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.02 0.29 0.29 0.28 0.50 0.50 0.13 0.13 0.13 0.04 0.04 0.11
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                   ****
Green/Cycle: 0.05 0.36 0.36 0.34 0.65 0.65 0.16 0.16 0.16 0.05 0.05 0.39
Volume/Cap: 0.45 0.81 0.81 0.81 0.76 0.76 0.81 0.81 0.81 0.81 0.81 0.28
Delay/Veh:    63.4 41.4 41.4 42.9 17.2 17.2 68.5 68.5 68.5 100.9 101 27.2
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 63.4 41.4 41.4 42.9 17.2 17.2 68.5 68.5 68.5 100.9 101 27.2
LOS by Move:     E    D      D     D    B      B    E    E      E    F     F     C
HCM2kAvgQ:       2   20     20    17   24     24   11   11     11    5     5     5
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cumulative PM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:33:04                  Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         NEAR-TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #4 Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          152                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.856
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):         22.9
Optimal Cycle:        108                 Level Of Service:                   C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Rotue 1                      Reina Del Mar Avenue
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Ovl
Min. Green:      4   20     20     4   10     10    4     4      4    4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 1! 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 29 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:       18 1340     79   222 2291      9   14     6      5   79    3   104
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    18 1340     79   222 2291      9   14     6      5   79    3   104
Added Vol:       0   67      1     2   51      0    0     0      0    1    0     1
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0    0     0
Initial Fut:    18 1407     80   224 2342      9   14     6      5   80    3   105
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:     19 1469     84   234 2445      9   15     6      5   84    3   110
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol:    19 1469     84   234 2445      9   15     6      5   84    3   110
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    19 1469     84   234 2445      9   15     6      5   84    3   110
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.94 0.94 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.90 0.90 0.90
Lanes:        1.00 1.89 0.11 1.00 1.99 0.01 0.56 0.24 0.20 0.59 0.02 1.39
Final Sat.: 1805 3388      193 1805 3593      14 1007 432      360 1006   38 2364
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.01 0.43 0.43 0.13 0.68 0.68 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.08 0.08 0.05
Crit Moves: ****                     ****              ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.03 0.62 0.62 0.18 0.77 0.77 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.09 0.09 0.28
Volume/Cap: 0.40 0.70 0.70 0.70 0.88 0.88 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.88 0.88 0.17
Delay/Veh:    78.2 20.8 20.8 64.8 15.7 15.7 86.4 86.4 86.4 98.3 98.3 41.5
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 78.2 20.8 20.8 64.8 15.7 15.7 86.4 86.4 86.4 98.3 98.3 41.5
LOS by Move:     E    C      C     E    B      B    F     F      F    F    F     D
HCM2kAvgQ:       1   25     25    11   44     44    2     2      2    9    9     3
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cumulative PM Peak Hour     Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:33:04                   Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         NEAR-TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #32 Fassler Ave. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       4.3        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.4]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Terra Nova Blvd.                     Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign       Uncontrolled     Uncontrolled
Rights:            Include           Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        1 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0        0 0 1 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:     249     0     0      0    0     0     0   10    512    0     9     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 249      0     0      0    0     0     0   10    512    0     9     0
Added Vol:       6    0     0      0    0     0     0    0     14    0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut: 255      0     0      0    0     0     0   10    526    0     9     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
PHF Volume:   271     0     0      0    0     0     0   11    558    0    10     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
FinalVolume: 271      0     0      0    0     0     0   11    558    0    10     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 6.4 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 3.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 299 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 696 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    696 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.39 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    1.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 13.4 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     B    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *    *     *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *    *     *     *
ApproachDel:       13.4            xxxxxx           xxxxxx           xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          B                 *                *                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cumulative PM Peak Hour      Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:33:04                 Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         NEAR-TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
                                   PM PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #35 Oddstad Blvd. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.361
Loss Time (sec):        0                 Average Delay (sec/veh):          10.4
Optimal Cycle:          0                 Level Of Service:                    B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                      Terra Nova Blvd.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign        Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include           Include          Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 1 0        0 1 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 4 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:      125 208       0    13 163     100  127     0     76    0     0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 125 208         0    13 163     100  127     0     76    0     0     0
Added Vol:       0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut: 125 208         0    13 163     100  127     0     76    0     0     0
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:    139 231       0    14 181     111  141     0     84    0     0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Reduced Vol: 139 231         0    14 181     111  141     0     84    0     0     0
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 139 231         0    14 181     111  141     0     84    0     0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:        1.00 1.00 0.00 0.09 1.19 0.72 1.00 0.25 0.75 0.00 1.00 0.00
Final Sat.:    585 638       0    58 750     496  520 153      455    0 510       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.24 0.36 xxxx 0.25 0.24 0.22 0.27 0.00 0.19 xxxx 0.00 xxxx
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                   ****
Delay/Veh:    10.5 11.2    0.0 10.1 9.9      9.2 11.6 9.1      9.1  0.0 0.0     0.0
Delay Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 10.5 11.2      0.0 10.1 9.9      9.2 11.6 9.1      9.1  0.0 0.0     0.0
LOS by Move:     B    B      *     B    A      A    B     A      A    *     *     *
ApproachDel:       10.9               9.7              10.6           xxxxxx
Delay Adj:         1.00              1.00              1.00            xxxxx
ApprAdjDel:        10.9               9.7              10.6           xxxxxx
LOS by Appr:          B                 A                 B                 *
AllWayAvgQ:    0.3 0.5     0.5   0.3 0.3     0.3  0.3 0.1      0.1  0.0 0.0     0.0
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cum+Proj AM Peak Hour        Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:34:36                 Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Route 1 & Linda Mar Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.447
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):        26.7
Optimal Cycle:         38                 Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Ovl              Ovl
Min. Green:      4   10     10     4   10     10    4    4     4     4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 0 1        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        8 430      76   263 161      41   75   48     2    53   43   489
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     8 430      76   263 161      41   75   48     2    53   43   489
Added Vol:       0   13      2     4    7      0    0    0     0     2    0     8
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:     8 443      78   267 168      41   75   48     2    55   43   497
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:      9 478      84   288 181      44   81   52     2    59   46   537
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0     0    0     0
Reduced Vol:     9 478      84   288 181      44   81   52     2    59   46   537
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     9 478      84   288 181      44   81   52     2    59   46   537
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.95 1.00 0.85 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.70 0.30 2.00 1.61 0.39 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.56 0.44 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3002      529 3502 2818     688 1805 1900 1615 1038 811 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.00 0.16 0.16 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.04 0.03 0.00 0.06 0.06 0.19
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                        ****
Green/Cycle: 0.15 0.36 0.36 0.18 0.39 0.39 0.10 0.10 0.26 0.24 0.24 0.42
Volume/Cap: 0.03 0.45 0.45 0.45 0.17 0.17 0.45 0.27 0.01 0.24 0.24 0.45
Delay/Veh:    36.0 24.9 24.9 36.7 20.2 20.2 44.1 42.4 27.8 31.0 31.0 20.8
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 36.0 24.9 24.9 36.7 20.2 20.2 44.1 42.4 27.8 31.0 31.0 20.8
LOS by Move:     D    C      C     D    C      C    D    D     C     C    C     C
HCM2kAvgQ:       0    7      7     4    2      2    3    2     0     3    3     7
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cum+Proj AM Peak Hour        Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:34:36                   Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          130                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.657
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):          31.6
Optimal Cycle:         56                 Level Of Service:                    C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Route 1                          Fassler Ave.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Ovl
Min. Green:      5   20     20     4   25     25    4     4      4    4     4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 31 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:       20 1127      9   193 565      22   39     4     28   13    13   548
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    20 1127      9   193 565      22   39     4     28   13    13   548
Added Vol:      15    8      0    19    2     26    8     1      3    6     8    38
0:               0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut:    35 1135      9   212 567      48   47     5     31   19    21   586
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:     37 1186      9   222 592      50   49     5     32   20    22   612
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Reduced Vol:    37 1186      9   222 592      50   49     5     32   20    22   612
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    37 1186      9   222 592      50   49     5     32   20    22   612
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.92 0.94 0.94 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.98 0.98 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.98 0.02 2.00 1.84 0.16 0.57 0.06 0.37 0.48 0.52 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3578       28 3502 3288     278  993 106      655  882 975 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.02 0.33 0.33 0.06 0.18 0.18 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.02 0.02 0.22
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                          ****
Green/Cycle: 0.10 0.50 0.50 0.10 0.50 0.50 0.08 0.08 0.08 0.23 0.23 0.33
Volume/Cap: 0.20 0.66 0.66 0.66 0.36 0.36 0.66 0.66 0.66 0.10 0.10 0.66
Delay/Veh:    54.3 24.8 24.8 61.3 19.9 19.9 69.9 69.9 69.9 39.4 39.4 39.1
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 54.3 24.8 24.8 61.3 19.9 19.9 69.9 69.9 69.9 39.4 39.4 39.1
LOS by Move:     D    C      C     E    B      B    E     E      E    D     D     D
HCM2kAvgQ:       1   18     18     4    8      8    5     5      5    1     1    13
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cum+Proj AM Peak Hour        Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:34:36                  Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #4 Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          152                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.722
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):         17.2
Optimal Cycle:         68                 Level Of Service:                   B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Rotue 1                      Reina Del Mar Avenue
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Ovl
Min. Green:      4   20     20     4   10     10    4     4      4    4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 1! 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        8 1795     35    78 779       8    3     6      3   35    4   155
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     8 1795     35    78 779       8    3     6      3   35    4   155
Added Vol:       0   47      7     1   45      0    0     0      0    2    0     2
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0    0     0
Initial Fut:     8 1842     42    79 824       8    3     6      3   37    4   157
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
PHF Volume:      8 1897     43    81 849       8    3     6      3   38    4   162
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol:     8 1897     43    81 849       8    3     6      3   38    4   162
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     8 1897     43    81 849       8    3     6      3   38    4   162
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.87 0.87 0.87
Lanes:        1.00 1.96 0.04 1.00 1.98 0.02 0.25 0.50 0.25 0.31 0.03 1.66
Final Sat.: 1805 3519       80 1805 3572      35  453 907      453  514   56 2749
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.00 0.54 0.54 0.05 0.24 0.24 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.07 0.07 0.06
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                   ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.08 0.73 0.73 0.06 0.71 0.71 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.10 0.10 0.16
Volume/Cap: 0.06 0.74 0.74 0.74 0.33 0.33 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.74 0.74 0.36
Delay/Veh:    64.9 12.9 12.9 92.6 8.2        8.2 75.4 75.4 75.4 76.2 76.2 57.1
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 64.9 12.9 12.9 92.6 8.2          8.2 75.4 75.4 75.4 76.2 76.2 57.1
LOS by Move:     E    B      B     F    A      A    E     E      E    E    E     E
HCM2kAvgQ:       0   27     27     5    8      8    1     1      1    7    7     4
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cum+Proj AM Peak Hour        Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:34:36                   Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #32 Fassler Ave. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       10.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.8]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Terra Nova Blvd.                      Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound        South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R          L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign          Stop Sign       Uncontrolled     Uncontrolled
Rights:            Include            Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        0 0 1! 0 0         0 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0        0 1 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 7:45-8:45 a.m.
Base Vol:     458     0      3      0    0     0     0    2   124     2     7     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 458      0      3      0    0     0     0    2   124     2     7     0
Added Vol:     16     0      0      0    0     0     0    0    17     0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut: 474      0      3      0    0     0     0    2   141     2     7     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.93
PHF Volume:   509     0      3      0    0     0     0    2   151     2     8     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0     0     0
FinalVolume: 509      0      3      0    0     0     0    2   151     2     8     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 6.4 6.5       6.2 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    4.1 xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 3.5 4.0       3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx    2.2 xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol:   90    90     78 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      154 xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 916 804       988 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1439 xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    915 803      988 xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1439 xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.56 0.00 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.00 xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:   xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        0.0 xxxx xxxxx
Control Del:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.5 xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     *    *      *      *    *     *     *    *      *    A     *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT      LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx 915 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx 3.6 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx       0.0 xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx 13.8 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      7.5 xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    B      *      *    *     *     *    *      *    A     *     *
ApproachDel:       13.8             xxxxxx           xxxxxx           xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          B                  *                *                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cum+Proj AM Peak Hour        Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:34:36                 Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #35 Oddstad Blvd. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.222
Loss Time (sec):        0                 Average Delay (sec/veh):           8.7
Optimal Cycle:          0                 Level Of Service:                    A
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                      Terra Nova Blvd.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign        Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include           Include          Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0    0      0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 1 0        0 1 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Aug 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:       69   96      0     4 173     109   43     0     35    0    0      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    69   96      0     4 173     109   43     0     35    0    0      0
Added Vol:       6    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     11    0    0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0    0      0
Initial Fut:    75   96      0     4 173     109   43     0     46    0    0      0
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:     83 107       0     4 192     121   48     0     51    0    0      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0    0      0
Reduced Vol:    83 107       0     4 192     121   48     0     51    0    0      0
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    83 107       0     4 192     121   48     0     51    0    0      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:        1.00 1.00 0.00 0.03 1.21 0.76 0.97 0.03 1.00 0.00 1.00 0.00
Final Sat.:    639 701       0    20 886     611  538    19    682    0 583       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.13 0.15 xxxx 0.22 0.22 0.20 0.09 0.00 0.07 xxxx 0.00 xxxx
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                   ****
Delay/Veh:     9.0 8.6     0.0   9.0 8.9     8.2  9.3 9.3      8.0  0.0 0.0     0.0
Delay Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:    9.0 8.6     0.0   9.0 8.9     8.2  9.3 9.3      8.0  0.0 0.0     0.0
LOS by Move:     A    A      *     A    A      A    A     A      A    *    *      *
ApproachDel:        8.8               8.6               8.6           xxxxxx
Delay Adj:         1.00              1.00              1.00            xxxxx
ApprAdjDel:         8.8               8.6               8.6           xxxxxx
LOS by Appr:          A                 A                 A                *
AllWayAvgQ:    0.1 0.2     0.2   0.3 0.2     0.2  0.1 0.1      0.1  0.0 0.0     0.0
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cum+Proj AM Peak Hour       Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:34:36                   Page 11-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
                               AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #36 Oddstad Blvd. & Site D/W
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       0.3        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 11.3]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                          Site D/W
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound         West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign          Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include            Include
Lanes:        0 1 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Aug 2009 << 8:00-9:00 a.m.
Base Vol:        0 165      0      0 210      0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 165      0      0 210      0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Added Vol:       3    1     0      0    0    10     6    0      1      0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Initial Fut:     3 166      0      0 210     10     6    0      1      0    0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83 0.83
PHF Volume:      4 201      0      0 255     12     7    0      1      0    0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0      0    0     0
FinalVolume:     4 201      0      0 255     12     7    0      1      0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      6.4 6.5     6.2 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 267 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       469 469     261 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 1309 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      556 495     783 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:   1309 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      555 494     783 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.01 0.00 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     A    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *      *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 579 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue: 0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.0 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel: 7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 11.3 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      A    *     *      *    *     *     *    B      *      *    *     *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx             11.3             xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                B                  *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cum+Proj PM Peak Hour        Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:36:41                 Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 Route 1 & Linda Mar Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):         0.590
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):        26.0
Optimal Cycle:         47                 Level Of Service:                  C
********************************************************************************
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase      Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Ovl              Ovl
Min. Green:      4   10     10     4   10     10    4    4     4     4    4      4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0   5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        1 0 1 0 1        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 23 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:       14 372      74   740 483     128  101   89     7   127   81   384
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    14 372      74   740 483     128  101   89     7   127   81   384
Added Vol:       0   10      2    11   22      0    0    0     0     2    0     11
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Initial Fut:    14 382      76   751 505     128  101   89     7   129   81   395
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99
PHF Volume:     14 385      77   758 510     129  102   90     7   130   82   399
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Reduced Vol:    14 385      77   758 510     129  102   90     7   130   82   399
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    14 385      77   758 510     129  102   90     7   130   82   399
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.95 1.00 0.85 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.67 0.33 2.00 1.60 0.40 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.61 0.39 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 2936      584 3502 2794     708 1805 1900 1615 1132 711 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.01 0.13 0.13 0.22 0.18 0.18 0.06 0.05 0.00 0.11 0.11 0.14
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.11 0.22 0.22 0.37 0.48 0.48 0.10 0.10 0.20 0.19 0.19 0.56
Volume/Cap: 0.07 0.59 0.59 0.59 0.38 0.38 0.59 0.49 0.02 0.59 0.59 0.25
Delay/Veh:    40.4 36.0 36.0 26.3 16.5 16.5 48.6 45.0 32.0 39.2 39.2 11.3
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 40.4 36.0 36.0 26.3 16.5 16.5 48.6 45.0 32.0 39.2 39.2 11.3
LOS by Move:     D    D      D     C    B      B    D    D     C     D    D      B
HCM2kAvgQ:       0    7      7    10    6      6    4    3     0     7    7      4
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cum+Proj PM Peak Hour        Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:36:41                   Page 7-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #3 Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          130                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.809
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):          33.6
Optimal Cycle:         86                 Level Of Service:                    C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Route 1                          Fassler Ave.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include            Ovl
Min. Green:      5   20     20     4   25     25    4     4      4    4     4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0     5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         2 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 1 0 0 2
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 3 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:       31 914      17   844 1541     48   58    14     41   38    17   268
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    31 914      17   844 1541     48   58    14     41   38    17   268
Added Vol:       6    7      3    42    8     12   47    15     28    6     4    26
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut:    37 921      20   886 1549     60  105    29     69   44    21   294
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
PHF Volume:     41 1018     22   979 1712     66  116    32     76   49    23   325
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Reduced Vol:    41 1018     22   979 1712     66  116    32     76   49    23   325
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    41 1018     22   979 1712     66  116    32     76   49    23   325
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.92 0.94 0.94 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.97 0.97 0.75
Lanes:        1.00 1.96 0.04 2.00 1.93 0.07 0.52 0.14 0.34 0.68 0.32 2.00
Final Sat.: 1805 3523       76 3502 3455     134  914 252      601 1244 594 2842
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.02 0.29 0.29 0.28 0.50 0.50 0.13 0.13 0.13 0.04 0.04 0.11
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                    ****
Green/Cycle: 0.05 0.36 0.36 0.35 0.65 0.65 0.16 0.16 0.16 0.05 0.05 0.39
Volume/Cap: 0.45 0.81 0.81 0.81 0.76 0.76 0.81 0.81 0.81 0.81 0.81 0.29
Delay/Veh:    63.4 41.7 41.7 42.8 17.1 17.1 69.0 69.0 69.0 101.8 102 27.1
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 63.4 41.7 41.7 42.8 17.1 17.1 69.0 69.0 69.0 101.8 102 27.1
LOS by Move:     E    D      D     D    B      B    E     E      E    F     F     C
HCM2kAvgQ:       2   20     20    17   24     24   11    11     11    5     5     5
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cum+Proj PM Peak Hour        Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:36:41                  Page 8-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Operations Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #4 Route 1 & Reina Del Mar Avenue
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          152                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):          0.859
Loss Time (sec):       12                 Average Delay (sec/veh):         23.1
Optimal Cycle:        109                 Level Of Service:                   C
********************************************************************************
Street Name:               Rotue 1                      Reina Del Mar Avenue
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Protected         Protected       Split Phase       Split Phase
Rights:            Include           Include           Include           Ovl
Min. Green:      4   20     20     4   10     10    4     4      4    4    4     4
Y+R:           5.0 5.0     5.0   5.0 5.0     5.0  5.0 5.0      5.0  5.0 5.0    5.0
Lanes:         1 0 1 1 0         1 0 1 1 0        0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 1! 0 1
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 29 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:       18 1340     79   222 2291      9   14     6      5   79    3   104
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    18 1340     79   222 2291      9   14     6      5   79    3   104
Added Vol:       0   78      1     2   61      0    0     0      0    1    0     1
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0    0     0
Initial Fut:    18 1418     80   224 2352      9   14     6      5   80    3   105
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:     19 1480     84   234 2455      9   15     6      5   84    3   110
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0    0     0
Reduced Vol:    19 1480     84   234 2455      9   15     6      5   84    3   110
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    19 1480     84   234 2455      9   15     6      5   84    3   110
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:     1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.95 0.94 0.94 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.90 0.90 0.90
Lanes:        1.00 1.89 0.11 1.00 1.99 0.01 0.56 0.24 0.20 0.59 0.02 1.39
Final Sat.: 1805 3390      191 1805 3593      14 1007 432      360 1006   38 2364
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.01 0.44 0.44 0.13 0.68 0.68 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.08 0.08 0.05
Crit Moves: ****                     ****              ****             ****
Green/Cycle: 0.03 0.62 0.62 0.18 0.77 0.77 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.09 0.09 0.28
Volume/Cap: 0.40 0.71 0.71 0.71 0.88 0.88 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.88 0.88 0.17
Delay/Veh:    78.2 20.8 20.8 65.1 15.9 15.9 86.4 86.4 86.4 99.1 99.1 41.7
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 78.2 20.8 20.8 65.1 15.9 15.9 86.4 86.4 86.4 99.1 99.1 41.7
LOS by Move:     E    C      C     E    B      B    F     F      F    F    F     D
HCM2kAvgQ:       1   25     25    11   45     45    2     2      2    9    9     3
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cum+Proj PM Peak Hour       Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:36:41                  Page 9-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
                               PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #32 Fassler Ave. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       4.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 13.8]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:          Terra Nova Blvd.                     Fassler Ave.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign       Uncontrolled     Uncontrolled
Rights:            Include           Include          Include          Include
Lanes:        1 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0        0 0 1 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 30 Jul 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:     249     0     0      0    0     0     0   10    512    0    9      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 249      0     0      0    0     0     0   10    512    0    9      0
Added Vol:     17     0     0      0    0     0     0    0     24    0    0      0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0    0      0
Initial Fut: 266      0     0      0    0     0     0   10    536    0    9      0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
PHF Volume:   282     0     0      0    0     0     0   11    569    0   10      0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0    0    0      0
FinalVolume: 282      0     0      0    0     0     0   11    569    0   10      0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 6.4 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 3.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 305 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 691 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    691 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.41 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    2.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 13.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     B    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *    *    *      *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT    LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *    *    *      *
ApproachDel:       13.8            xxxxxx           xxxxxx           xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          B                 *                *                *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cum+Proj PM Peak Hour        Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:36:41                 Page 10-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
                                PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM 4-Way Stop Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #35 Oddstad Blvd. & Terra Nova Blvd.
********************************************************************************
Cycle (sec):          100                 Critical Vol./Cap.(X):           0.364
Loss Time (sec):        0                 Average Delay (sec/veh):          10.5
Optimal Cycle:          0                 Level Of Service:                    B
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                      Terra Nova Blvd.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound       East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R        L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:         Stop Sign         Stop Sign        Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include           Include          Include
Min. Green:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Lanes:         1 0 0 1 0         0 1 0 1 0        0 1 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 4 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:      125 208       0    13 163     100  127     0     76    0     0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse: 125 208         0    13 163     100  127     0     76    0     0     0
Added Vol:      14    0      0     0    0      0    0     0     11    0     0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Initial Fut: 139 208         0    13 163     100  127     0     87    0     0     0
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90
PHF Volume:    154 231       0    14 181     111  141     0     96    0     0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0    0     0     0
Reduced Vol: 154 231         0    14 181     111  141     0     96    0     0     0
PCE Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:      1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume: 154 231         0    14 181     111  141     0     96    0     0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Adjustment: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Lanes:        1.00 1.00 0.00 0.09 1.19 0.72 1.00 0.19 0.81 0.00 1.00 0.00
Final Sat.:    581 634       0    58 742     491  518 114      495    0 505       0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:      0.27 0.36 xxxx 0.25 0.24 0.23 0.27 0.00 0.19 xxxx 0.00 xxxx
Crit Moves:        ****         ****             ****                   ****
Delay/Veh:    10.8 11.3    0.0 10.2 10.0     9.3 11.6 9.2     9.2   0.0 0.0     0.0
Delay Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh: 10.8 11.3      0.0 10.2 10.0     9.3 11.6 9.2      9.2  0.0 0.0     0.0
LOS by Move:     B    B      *     B    A      A    B     A      A    *     *     *
ApproachDel:       11.1               9.7              10.7           xxxxxx
Delay Adj:         1.00              1.00              1.00            xxxxx
ApprAdjDel:        11.1               9.7              10.7           xxxxxx
LOS by Appr:          B                 A                 B                 *
AllWayAvgQ:    0.3 0.5     0.5   0.3 0.3     0.3  0.3 0.2      0.2  0.0 0.0     0.0
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Cum+Proj PM Peak Hour       Wed Feb 23, 2011 09:36:41                   Page 11-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             ODDSTAD ASSISTED LIVING
                         CUMULATIVE + PROJECT CONDITIONS
                               PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #36 Oddstad Blvd. & Site D/W
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       0.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: B[ 11.7]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           Oddstad Blvd.                          Site D/W
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound         West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign          Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include            Include
Lanes:        0 1 0 0 0         0 0 0 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 4 Aug 2009 << 5:00-6:00 p.m.
Base Vol:        0 210      0      0 240      0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 210      0      0 240      0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Added Vol:       3    0     0      0    0    11    14    0      3      0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0      0    0     0
Initial Fut:     3 210      0      0 240     11    14    0      3      0    0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
PHF Volume:      3 232      0      0 265     12    15    0      3      0    0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0      0    0     0
FinalVolume:     3 232      0      0 265     12    15    0      3      0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      6.4 6.5     6.2 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 277 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       510 510     271 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 1297 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      527 469     772 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:   1297 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx      526 468     772 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.03 0.00 0.00 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     A    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *      *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 557 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue: 0.0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.1 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel: 7.8 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 11.7 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      A    *     *      *    *     *     *    B      *      *    *     *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx             11.7             xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                B                  *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
C. Traffic Analysis Worksheets
                                                                                                       Oddstad Assisted Living Center
                                                                                                                  ADEIR
                                                                                                                   Table III-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Oddstad Assisted Living
                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAFT TIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Approved Cumulative
 Related                             Name and Location                                                                 Land Use                    Unit/ Lot Size                  Status             Project     Project
 Residential Development
1        "The Bowl" North end of Palmetto (APN 009-402-260)                                         19 Detached Condos 24 Attached Condos    4.2 acres                    Inactive                                    (2)
2        Piedmont Sub. Piedmont Avenue (APN 018-073-150)                                            SF Detached                              5 Units                     Inactive                                   5 SFR
3        Oceanside Meadows 1570 Higgins Way (APN 023-361-160)                                       SF Detached                              11 Units 10,061-22,760 sf    ApplicationIncomplete                     11 SFR
4        Vistamar Development 503-511 Monterey (APN 009-381-010)                                    Townhouses                               8 Units 1 acre               ApplicationIncomplete                       (2)
5        Sunset Estates 500 block of Palmetto Avenue (APN 009-401-030)                              7-lot Subdivision                        12,806-36,677 sf             Inactive                                    (2)
6        Beach Boulevard 1567 Beach Boulevard (APN 016-011-190)                                     9 Condos                                 30,698 sf                    Building Permits Pending                    (2)
7        Lorry Lane Lorry Lane (APN 009-391-020)                                                    7 Detached Condos                        53,418 sf                    Inactive                                    (2)
8        The Prospects Fassler Avenue (APN 022-083-020 & -030)                                      29 Condos                                11 acres                     PC & CC Approved                       29 DU Condo
9        Harmony @ 1 Fassler Avenue @ Roberts Road (APN 022-150-310, -420, -030)                    13-lot Subdivision                       65+ acres                    Final ParcelMap Pending     13 SFR
10       Gypsy Hill Gypsy Hill Road/Clarenden Road (APN 016-421-030)                                8-lot Subdivision                        13.9 acres                   Incomplete                                 (2)
11       Connemara 900 Oceana Boulevard (APN 016-451-010, -020)                                     23 SF Detached                           40+ acres                    Completed
12       Adobe Drive Condominiums, 1335 Adobe Drive                                                7 Condos                                 18,750 SF                    Reapplication pending                   7 DU Condo
 Commercial, Mixed Use, and Miscellaneous Development
13       Mixed-Use Building Waterford/Monterey (APN 009-058-040)                                    5 Units/Commercial                      8,609.74 sf                  Building Permits Pending       (2)
14       Connemara 900 Oceana Boulevard (APN 016-451-010, -020)                                     23 Units/Commercial                     10,000 sf                    Completed
                                                                                                                                                                                                     19,500 sf
15      Rockaway Center 270 Rockaway Beach Avenue (APN 022-024-230, -240)                          Commercial Office                         33,594 sf                   CC Approved                    (1)
16      Mixed-Use Building 4545 Coast Highway (APN 022-012-020)                                    63 Condos/Commercial                      22,670 sf                   Inactive                                63 DU Condo
17      Mixed-Use Building 2270-2286 Palmetto (APN 016-294-570)                                    2 Retail/3 Residential                    6,000 sf                    CC/PC Approved                               (2)
18      The Surf Spot 4627 Coast Highway                                                           Restaurant                                3,700 sf                    PC Approved                    (3)
19      Holiday Inn Express, 519 Nick Gust Way                                                     Hotel                                    14 room addition             Application pending                      14 RM (4)
         CC: City Council PC: Planning Commission sf: Square feet SF: Single-family residential Source: City of Pacifica, November 2010.

NOTES
 (1)    12
        12,378     Office and
           378 SF Offi       d 11
                               11,398
                                  398 SF R   t il/R t
                                         Retail/Restaurant      h
                                                             t changed
                                                                     dt   19,500
                                                                       to 19 500 sf
                                                                                  f commercial
                                                                                           i l office
                                                                                                ffi
 (2)    Project not within study area, no effect on traffic.
 (3)    Add project to Approved Project list in Draft TIA
 (4)    Change to 14 rooms from original of 22 rooms

Revised: 2/1/2011
                                                                             ASSISTED LIVING CENTER
                                                                            VEHICLE TRIP GENERATION
                                                                         8/17/2009 (Revised 02/23/2011)
                                                                                            TRIP GENERATION RATE                         TRIP GENERATION VOLUME
TZ                                        LAND             LU                        A.M. PEAK HOUR       P.M. PEAK HOUR           A.M. PEAK HOUR       P.M. PEAK HOUR
No.           LOCATION                     USE            CODE      SIZE UNITS      IN     OUT TOTAL     IN     OUT TOTAL         IN     OUT TOTAL     IN     OUT TOTAL
BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
   2 Old County Rd.              Commercial Office          710     19.50    KSF       2.29    0.31   2.60   0.88   4.28   5.16    45      6     51    17     84    101
   1 Roberts Road                SFR                        210       13     DU        0.19    0.56   0.75   0.65   0.36   1.01     2      7     10     8      5     13
  11 4627 Coast Hwy.             Restaurant*                932      3.70    KSF       3.59    3.32   6.91   3.95   2.74   6.69    13     12     26    15     10     25
* Net new trips. 40% pass-by

                                                                                               TRIP GENERATION RATE                      TRIP GENERATION VOLUME
TZ                                        LAND             LU                           A.M. PEAK HOUR       P.M. PEAK HOUR        A.M. PEAK HOUR       P.M. PEAK HOUR
No.           LOCATION                     USE            CODE      SIZE    UNITS      IN     OUT TOTAL     IN     OUT TOTAL      IN     OUT TOTAL     IN     OUT TOTAL
PROJECT CONDITIONS
  10 725 Oddstad Blvd.           Assisted Living            254      141     BED       0.09    0.05   0.14   0.10   0.12   0.22    13      7     20    14     17     31



                                                                                               TRIP GENERATION RATE                      TRIP GENERATION VOLUME
TZ                                        LAND             LU                           A.M. PEAK HOUR       P.M. PEAK HOUR        A.M. PEAK HOUR       P.M. PEAK HOUR
No.           LOCATION                     USE            CODE      SIZE    UNITS      IN     OUT TOTAL     IN     OUT TOTAL      IN     OUT TOTAL     IN     OUT TOTAL
NEAR-TERM CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS
   3   Piedmont Ave.              SFR                       210       5       DU       0.19    0.56   0.75   0.65   0.36   1.01     1      3      4     3      2      5
   7   The Prospects - Fassle
                       Fassler AveCondo/Townh
                               AveCondo/Townhouse
                                                ouse        230       29      DU       0.07
                                                                                       0.07    0.37   0.44   0.36   0.18
                                                                                                                    0.18   0.54     2     11     13    10      5     16
   4   Fassler Ave. @ Rte. 1      Condo/Townhouse           230       63      DU       0.07    0.37   0.44   0.36   0.18   0.54     5     23     28    23     11     34
   8   519 Nick Gust Way          Hotel (motel)             320       14      RM       0.23    0.41   0.64   0.31   0.27   0.58     3      6      9     4      4      8
   9   Adobe Drive                Condo                     230       7       DU       0.07    0.37   0.44   0.36   0.18   0.54     1      3      3     3      1      4
   6   1570 Higgins Way           SFR                       210       11      DU       0.19    0.56   0.75   0.65   0.36   1.01     2      6      8     7      4     11


Added TZ 11 and revised sizes and land uses of other developments per City list of active projects
                  APPENDIX I­3

       TRAFFIC REPORT PEER REVIEW LETTER
HEXAGON TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS, JANUARY 2011
January 17, 2011

Mr. Geoff Reilly
WRA, Inc.
2169-G East Francisco Boulevard
San Rafael, CA 94901

Subject:     Peer Review of the 721 Oddstad Boulevard Assisted Living Traffic Impact Analysis

Dear Mr. Reilly:
This letter report presents the results of Hexagon's peer review of the Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA)
prepared for the 721 Oddstad Boulevard Assisted Living project in Pacifica, California. This peer review
consists of a technical evaluation of the 721 Oddstad Boulevard Assisted Living TIA, dated November 25,
2009 and prepared by RKH Civil and Transportation Engineering. The purpose of this review is to ensure
that the traffic report conforms to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) standards, to confirm that
accepted traffic study methods were used, and to ensure that the recommendations contained in the report
adequately address potential project impacts.
The project site is located on the north side of Oddstad Boulevard between Linda Mar Boulevard and Terra
Nova Boulevard. The project description contained in the traffic study for the project indicates that the
assisted living development will consist of a 141-bed facility built upon a vacant lot.
Hexagon agrees with the findings and recommendations of the traffic report. The key findings of our peer
review of the traffic report are presented in the following sections.

Scope of Review

The following issues were reviewed in the traffic study as part of the peer review:
        1.   Existing Traffic Volumes and Intersection Levels of Service
        2.   Site Traffic Projections
        3.   Project Trip Distribution Pattern
        4.   Project Trip Assignment
        5.   Adequacy of Study Area
        6.   Level of Service Calculations
        7.   Identification of Project Impacts and/or Recommendations
        8.   Site Access and Circulation

Review Results

Each of the key issues of the peer review is discussed below along with the results of the peer review.
Existing Traffic Volumes and Intersection Levels of Service
The traffic count data used in the traffic study were collected in July and August of 2009. The raw count
data is included in Appendix A of the traffic report. The count data were compared against Figure 3 in the
report and the existing LOS calculations contained in Appendix B of the report. The existing counts do not
indicate any obvious flaws in the data, and the turning-movements recorded appear to match expected
traffic patterns in the study area.
Field observations were conducted by Hexagon at the study intersections during the AM and PM peak
periods of traffic in order to determine whether the existing count data and resulting calculated levels of
service adequately represent existing conditions.
Mr. Geoff Reilly
January 17, 2011
Page 2 of 4


The level of service results for existing conditions contained in the traffic study were compared to field
conditions to determine if existing traffic operations are accurately modeled. A review of the level of service
calculations for the peak-hour existing conditions indicates that the delays calculated at the study
intersections are accurate.
Site Traffic Projections
A review of the trip generation estimates contained in the traffic report (Table D) was conducted to verify
that they are accurate, that representative land uses were chosen, and that the rates are based on the
appropriate land-use data as published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE).
A review of the site traffic projections finds that the trip generation rates used in the traffic study
correspond to the applicable ITE land use category (Land Use 254: Assisted Living) for the land use
proposed as part of the project and that the trip generation analysis is accurate.
Trip Distribution Pattern
The directional distribution of project traffic (Figure 5) was reviewed for consistency with existing travel
patterns and the relative locations of complementary land uses.
The trip distribution pattern for the proposed project is reasonable and is consistent with existing traffic
patterns in the area and the relative locations of complementary land uses. The trip distribution indicates
that approximately 95% of the AM peak hour trips and 80% of the PM peak hour trips would be destined
for areas outside the project area via Highway 1. The remaining 5% of AM peak hour and 20% of PM peak
hour project-generated traffic would be destined for areas local to the site. Since it is estimated that the
majority of employees and visitors of the assisted living facility would be located outside of the project
area, the general distribution is reflective of the project development.
Project Trip Assignment
The assignment of site-generated traffic on the local roadway network (Figure 6) was reviewed for
accuracy and consistency with the trip distribution pattern contained in the traffic report.
The review found that the assignment of project traffic shown in Figure 6 is consistent with the trip
distribution pattern contained in the traffic report. However, the PM peak hour project trips shown in Figure
6 do not match the Project PM level of service calculations contained in Appendix B.
Adequacy of Study Area
The study area and study facilities included in the traffic impact study were reviewed to ensure that
potential project impacts on the local transportation system are accurately identified.
The list of study intersections considered in the traffic analysis covers a sufficiently wide geographic area
to accurately identify the potentially significant project impacts associated with the proposed project. The
following intersections were included in the analysis:
        Route 1 and Linda Mar Boulevard/San Pedro Avenue
        Route 1 and Fassler Avenue/Rockaway Beach Avenue
        Route 1 and Reina Del Mar Avenue
        Fassler Avenue and Terra Nova Boulevard
        Terra Nova Boulevard and Oddstad Boulevard
Level of Service Calculations
The TRAFFIX level of service calculation output pages (Appendix B) were reviewed for accuracy.
The results of the review indicate that the level of service calculations are consistent with the existing
traffic volume data presented in the report and that correct geometry assumptions were used.
The intersection level of service calculations contained in Appendix B employ peak hour factors to adjust
the count volumes. This is a very conservative approach, since the adjusted volumes represent the worst
Mr. Geoff Reilly
January 17, 2011
Page 3 of 4


15-minute period and not the worst 60-minute (peak hour) period of the day. In most instances, planning
for the peak 15-minute traffic period makes traffic conditions look worse than they really are. Most cities in
San Mateo County do not use peak hour factors.
Identification of Project Impacts
The traffic report concludes that the addition of project traffic to the roadway system will not result in any
significant impacts to the studied intersections. Hexagon agrees with this conclusion.
Site Access and Circulation
The traffic report recommends that clear sight distance triangles be provided at the driveway serving the
project. Hexagon agrees with this conclusion.
The November 25, 2009 traffic report does not address left-turn access into the project site from Oddstad
Boulevard. Oddstad Boulevard has one northbound travel lane that measures approximately 18 feet wide
at the project site. The traffic report estimates the project would generate 3 left turns into the site during
both the AM and PM peak traffic periods. There currently is no left-turn lane serving the site and there is
insufficient right-of-way to add a left-turn lane at this location. Thus, the inbound project trips will have to
turn left into the site from the northbound through lane. Since this condition already exists at the adjacent
shopping center driveway located approximately 100 feet to the north, and that driveway appears to
operate adequately, Hexagon does not anticipate that left turns into the project site would create any
operational problems on Oddstad Boulevard. A letter dated May 26, 2010 from Mr. Richard K. Hopper to
Mr. Javier Chavarria with JC Engineering in response to comments on the traffic report supports this
conclusion. That letter states: "Left turn movements into the site will operate at LOS A during the peak
street traffic hours of a typical weekday."

Minor Edits

Hexagon identified various minor typographical errors:

1. According to the count data contained in Appendix A, the northbound left-turn PM peak hour volume
    shown in Figure 3 at the Route 1 & Reina Del Mar intersection (intersection #3) should be 18.
2. The last sentence of the second paragraph on Page 8 of the traffic study appears to be incomplete.
3. The existing PM peak hour level of service calculations are missing from Appendix B. Instead, the
    project PM peak hour level of service calculations show up twice in Appendix B.
4. Some of the AM and PM peak hour background traffic volumes shown in Figure 4 at the Route 1 &
    Fassler/Rockaway intersection (intersection #2) do not match the intersection level of service
    calculations contained in Appendix B.
5. The northbound left-turn PM peak hour volume shown in Figure 4 at the Route 1 & Reina Del Mar
    intersection (intersection #3) should be 18.
6. The PM peak hour project trips shown in Figure 6 do not match the Project PM level of service
    calculations contained in Appendix B.
7. Some of the AM and PM peak hour project traffic volumes shown in Figure 7 at all 5 study
    intersections do not match the intersection level of service calculations contained in Appendix B.
8. According to the PM peak hour intersection level of service calculations contained in Appendix B, the
    PM peak hour intersection delay shown in Table E (Chapter 4) for the Fassler & Terra Nova
    intersection (intersection #4) should be 13.5 seconds under project conditions.
9. Some of the AM and PM peak hour cumulative no project traffic volumes shown in Figure 8 at the
    Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway intersection (intersection #2) do not match the intersection level of
    service calculations contained in Appendix B.
10. According to the PM peak hour intersection level of service calculations contained in Appendix B, the
    PM peak hour intersection delay shown in Table F (Chapter 5) for the Route 1 & Fassler/Rockaway
    intersection (intersection #2) should be 30.4 seconds under cumulative no project conditions.
Mr. Geoff Reilly
January 17, 2011
Page 4 of 4



Conclusions

In summary, Hexagon reviewed the traffic impact study and concludes that the analysis accurately
indicates that the addition of project traffic will not result in any significant impacts to the studied facilities
based on level of service significance criteria. Hexagon also agrees with the traffic report's
recommendation that clear sight distance triangles should be provided at the project driveway.
It should also be noted that based on a recent California Supreme Court decision, CEQA traffic impact
studies should include an Existing Plus Project traffic scenario. The traffic report should be revised to
include an analysis of this required scenario.

Please feel free to call if you have any questions or would like to discuss the results of our analysis.
Sincerely,
HEXAGON TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS, INC.




Gary Black
President




Brian Jackson
Senior Associate
MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION,
    INITIAL STUDY & CHECKLIST



             Prepared For:

 Proposed Single-Family Dwelling at
       200 Berendos Avenue
            Pacifica, CA
          (APN 022-330-150)


             Date Prepared:

         December 17, 2007




              Prepared By:

            CITY OF PACIFICA
        PLANNING DEPARTMENT
      1800 FRANCISCO BOULEVARD
           PACIFICA, CA 94044
              (650) 738-7341
                                                                                                   Less Than
                                                                                                   Significant
                                                                                     Potentially       With       Less Than
                                                                                     Significant    Mitigation    Significant    No
                                                                                     Impact        Incorporated     Impact      Impact




                                                CITY OF PACIFICA
                               PLANNING & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
                                 MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION,
                                    INITIAL STUDY AND CHECKLIST

Date:    December 17, 2007

California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Requirements

This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) of
1970, as amended, and applicable guidelines.

Project Title:          Proposed Single-Family Dwelling at 200 Berendos Avenue, Pacifica, California

Lead Agency:            City of Pacifica                 Contact Person:          Kathryn Farbstein, Assistant Planner
                        1800 Francisco Blvd.                                      (650) 738-7341
                        Pacifica, CA 94044

Project Sponsor:        Dave Colt
                        1397 Grand Avenue
                        Pacifica, CA 94044

Owner:                  Gemma Ludkey
                        300 Tideaway Drive
                        Alameda, CA 94501-3511

Project Location:       200 Berendos Avenue, Pacifica, CA 94044

General Plan Designation/Zoning Classification: The General Plan designation for the one acre site is Open Space
Residential and the site is zoned A/B-5/HPD, which is classified as Agricultural with Lot Size and Hillside Preservation
District Overlays. Attachment "a" identifies the General Plan designation and zoning of the subject site and surrounding
properties. The proposed project is compatible with both designations.

Project Description: The project applicant and property owner propose to construct a single-family residence of
approximately 3,500 square feet and an attached garage of 700 square feet on a one acre parcel. The garage is attached
at an angle and is slightly skewed from the proposed dwelling. The dwelling is 25 feet from the Calera Creek outlet. Calera
Creek was diverted under Berendos Avenue just southwest of the project site and the end of the culvert is located on the
subject site; thus, the creek freely flows 25 feet away from the proposed structure. The proposed site plan is shown in
Attachment "b". The dwelling is proposed as two levels with a steeply peaked roof. In addition to the four bedrooms and
three bathrooms on the upper level, the applicant is also proposing an open kitchen and dining area, living room, and a
family room. The living area for the lower level would be approximately 1,600 square feet, and upper floor would be
approximately 1,900 square feet. The total height of the proposed building would be 35 feet. Vehicular access to the site is
from Berendos Avenue directly into the three car garage. The materials proposed would be composition and natural cedar
                                                                                              Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                             Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                               Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                            Mitigation
                                                                                                           Incorporated


shingles for the roof, wood trim around doors and windows, and wood lap and stucco for the siding. Drainage from the
developed area of the project site would be diverted to the storm drain system and not enter the creek.

The proposed project is in conformance with all City requirements and the required local permits and/or approvals including
a Use Permit, Site Development Permit and Encroachment Permit except that approval of a Variance to exceed the
maximum allowable site coverage and to provide two uncovered spaces off-site would be necessary.

Site Description: The approximately 1 acre project site is located in the central portion of the City of Pacifica in the Vallemar
Neighborhood. The site is located south of Reina Del Mar and east of Highway 1(See Attachment c) and is an irregularly
shaped parcel abutting Berendos Avenue. The subject site is in the Calera Creek drainage basin at an approximate
elevation of 210 feet above sea level. It occupies the foot of a steep, northeasterly facing hillside. The building site is
proposed on an irregular, graded area that extends from the toe of the slope over the culvert containing a segment of the
southern branch of the Calera Creek to the native slope with an average cross slope of approximately 50%. There is level
area that extends about 50 feet into the property along Berendos Avenue before the creek culvert, which is the area
proposed for development. Approximately 10 feet beyond the creek, the hillside slopes steeply uphill. The slope of the area
between the proposed project improvements and the creek is approximately 15%. Runoff from the site currently drains to
the creek channel or the street. The open channel of Calera Creek has banks approximately 5 feet high and extends
northward before entering another culvert system north of the site. The culvert system was put in many years ago and
based upon a site visit; it appears that minimal if any erosion has occurred along the stream banks.

Two Monterey pine heritage trees exist on the subject site more than 35 feet from the retaining wall uphill from the dwelling and
more than 40 feet from the proposed dwelling. Approximately 8 Eucalyptus trees will be removed from the building site but
these trees are not considered to be heritage trees. Up to 20 Eucalyptus trees can be removed without obtaining a tree permit.
The arborist report has provided protection measures although the location of the two pine trees is such that it is anticipated
that the trees will not be impacted during construction of this project.

Surrounding Land Uses and Setting: Calera Creek flows from the canyons of Sweeney Ridge and undeveloped hills to the
east of the subject site, and then through the Vallemar residential neighborhood and eventually to the Pacific Ocean near
Rockaway Beach. East of the property, the creek flows along Berendos Avenue, crosses under the street through a 48 inch
culvert, and then daylights on the northwest portion of the property. The creek extends for approximately 75 feet along the
northwest property boundary. No other water features or wetlands were identified within 0.7 miles of the property. Water
resources in the vicinity of the project include San Andreas Lake, approximately 1.8 miles east of the property, Laguna Salada,
approximately 1.4 miles northwest of the property, and 4 to 5 constructed ponds all found within a five-mile radius of the site
either located on golf courses or cemeteries.

The lands to the north and east of the subject site are developed with single-family dwellings. The undeveloped property to
the west and south consists of more than 260 acres and is owned by the City of Pacifica. The City is currently in negotiation
with the National Park Service to add this land to the Golden Gate National Recreation Area (GGNRA) and the process
should be completed sometime next year. The western slope leading up to Sweeney Ridge is owned and operated by the
GGNRA while San Francisco Public Utilities Commission owns lands along the eastern slope.

Other public agency approval(s) that may be required: US Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), State Department of Fish
and Game (DFG), US Army Corp of Engineers and State Regional Water Quality Control Board.




                                                               -3-
                                                                                                 Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                                Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                                  Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                               Mitigation
                                                                                                              Incorporated



ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS POTENTIALLY AFFECTED

The environmental factors checked (X) below would be potentially affected by this project, involving at least one impact that
is a "Potentially Significant Impact" as indicated by the checklist on the following pages.

___      Land Use and Planning             ___      Public Services                      ___     Utilities / Service Systems
___      Population and Housing            _X       Biological Resources                 ___     Aesthetics
_X_      Geology / Soils                   ___      Mineral Resources                    _X_     Cultural Resources
_X_      Hydrology / Water Quality         ___      Hazards & Hazardous Materials        ___     Recreation
_X_      Air Quality                       _X_      Noise                                ___     Agricultural Resources
__       Transportation/Traffic            ___      Mandatory Findings of Significance

DETERMINATION

On the basis of this initial evaluation:

___      I find that the proposed project COULD NOT have a significant effect on the environment and a NEGATIVE
         DECLARATION will be prepared.

_X       I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the environment, there will not be a
         significant effect in this case because mitigation measures, as described on an attached sheet (Mitigation
         Monitoring and Reporting Plan) and agreed to by the applicant, have been added to the project. A MITIGATED
         NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

___      I find that the proposed project MAY have a significant effect on the environment, and an ENVIRONMENTAL
         IMPACT REPORT is required.

___      I find that the proposed project MAY have a "potentially significant impact" or "potentially significant unless
         mitigated" impact on the environment, but at least one effect 1) has been adequately analyzed in an earlier
         document pursuant to applicable legal standards, and 2) has been addressed by mitigation measures based on the
         earlier analysis as described on attached sheets. An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required, but it must
         analyze on the effects that remain to be addressed.

___      I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the environment, there WILL NOT be a
         significant effect in this case because all potentially significant effects (a) have been analyzed adequately in an
         earlier EIR or Negative Declaration pursuant to applicable standards, and (b) have been avoided or mitigated
         pursuant to that earlier EIR or Negative Declaration, including revisions or mitigation measures that are imposed
         upon the proposed project, nothing further is required.


City of Pacifica:     _______________________________                 Date: December 17, 2007
                                           (Signature)

         Kathryn Farbstein, Assistant Planner, City of Pacifica, Planning and Economic Development Department



                                                                    -4-
                                                                                              Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                             Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                               Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                            Mitigation
                                                                                                           Incorporated


LEVEL OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS

This checklist indicates the potential level of impact for each environmental factor, including subcategory, as follows:

        Potentially Significant Impact: Applies if there is substantial evidence that an effect is significant. If one or more
        of these entries are made, an EIR is required.

        Less Than Significant With Mitigation Incorporated: Applies when the incorporation of mitigation measures has
        reduced an effect from "Potentially Significant Impact" to a "Less Than Significant Impact". Describe mitigation
        measures and briefly explain how they reduce the effect accordingly. Reference source documentation in
        parenthesis ( ).

        Less Than Significant Impact: Requires brief explanation. Reference source documentation in parenthesis ( ).

        No Impact: No explanation required when source documentation is referenced ( ) and adequately supports that
        impact does not apply. Explanation is, however, required when finding is based on project-specific factors or
        general standards.

I.      LAND USE AND PLANNING. Would the project:

        a) Physically divide an established community? (1)                               ___               ___            ___         _X_

        b) Conflict with any applicable land use plan, policy, or regulation
           Of an agency with jurisdiction over the project (including, but not
           limited to the general plan, specific plan, local coastal program,
           or zoning ordinance) adopted for the purpose of avoiding or
           mitigating an environmental effect? (1)                                       ___               ___            ___         _X_

        c) Conflict with any applicable habitat conservation plan or natural
           community conservation plan? (1)                                               ___              ___            ___         _X_

        Discussion of Evaluation: The proposed project meets the City's existing General Plan and Zoning Code regulations
        and does not include any elements that would physically divide any established community. The proposed project
        would not conflict with any applicable habitat conservation plan or community conservation plan.

        Mitigation: None required

II.     POPULATION AND HOUSING. Would the project:

        a) Induce substantial population growth in an area, either directly
           (for example, by proposing new homes or businesses) or indirectly
           (for example, through extension of roads or other infrastructure)? (1)        ___               ___            __          __X_

        b) Displace substantial numbers of existing housing,
           necessitating the construction of replacement housing elsewhere? (1)           ___       ___                ___            _X_

        c) Displace substantial numbers of people, necessitating the

                                                               -5-
                                                                                             Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                            Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                              Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                           Mitigation
                                                                                                          Incorporated


          construction of replacement housing elsewhere? (1)                    ___            ___          ___                     _X_

       Discussion of Evaluation: The proposal to construct a single-family dwelling will induce minimal population growth
       by providing one new housing unit. However, since no new roads or other infrastructure are proposed other than
       the driveway and parking bays, the growth would be confined to the one dwelling proposed for construction.
       Infrastructure is available to accommodate the proposed project. The project would not displace any housing units
       or people, and it would not necessitate the construction of any replacement housing. Moreover, growth in this
       particular location has been accounted for in the City's General Plan designation of Open Space Residential, which
       averages more than five acres per dwelling unit depending on physical and practical constraints associated with a
       given project. Although the project site is roughly 1 acre in size, it is a legal lot zoned for residential development
       that can be developed with a single-family dwelling. Therefore, the amount of growth resulting from this particular
       project is consistent with the City's plans for the site. No significant negative impacts related to housing are
       anticipated by the proposed project.

       Mitigation: None required.

III.   GEOLOGY AND SOILS. Would the project:

       a) Expose people or structures to potential substantial adverse effects, including the risk of loss, injury,
          or death involving:

           1) Rupture of known earthquake fault, as delineated on the
              most recent Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zoning Map
              issued by the State Geologist for the area or based on
              other substantial evidence of a known fault? ( )                           ___        _ X_                  ___        ___

           2) Strong seismic ground shaking? ( )                                        ___                X_             __         ___

           3) Seismic-related ground failure, including liquefaction? ( )                ___              _ X_            ___        ___

           4) Landslides? ( )                                                           ___         _ X __       __                 ___

       b) Result in substantial soil erosion or the loss of topsoil? ( )                 ___        _ X_         __                 __

       c) Be located on a geologic unit or soil that is unstable, or that
          would become unstable as a result of the project, and potentially
          result in on- or off-site landslide, lateral spreading, subsidence,
          liquefaction or collapse? ( )                                                        __         _ X __          __        __

       d) Be located on expansive soil, as defined in Table 18-1-B of the
          uniform Building Code (1997), creating substantial risks to life
          or property? ( )                                                              ___         _ X_              _             __

       e) Have soils incapable of adequately supporting the use of septic
          tanks or alternative waste water disposal systems where sewers
          are not available for the disposal of wastewater? ( )                          ___        ___          ___       _ X_

                                                              -6-
                                                                                     Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                    Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                      Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                   Mitigation
                                                                                                  Incorporated


Discussion of Evaluation: Based upon the Geotechnical Investigation report prepared by Earth Investigations
Consultants (September 21, 2006, letter dated July 13, 2007, and email confirmation dated December 7, 2007), the
proposed site development and layout is feasible from a geotechnical standpoint as long as the recommendations
specified as mitigation measures below are incorporated into the project. The following discussion is based on the
geologist's recommendations.

The site is not within a State of California designated Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zone, but is located in the San
Francisco Bay Area, considered one of the most seismically active regions in the United States. Significant
earthquakes have occurred in the Bay Area, and will continue to occur, with varying intensities, depending upon the
magnitude of earthquake, the distance of the site from the causative fault, and the type of materials underlying the
site.

No known active faults or fault traces are known to pass through the subject site; therefore, the risk of fault rupture
in the development area is low. The nearest active fault is the San Andreas, mapped approximately 1 ½ miles to
the northeast. The off-shore trace of the San Gregorio-Seal Cove fault is approximately 5 miles to the southwest,
projected between Moss Beach to the south and Marin Headlands to the north. Movement on the San Andreas
fault has produced major earthquakes in 1906 and 1989, and strong ground shaking to the site area. There was a
moderate earthquake in 1957. The 1906 and 1957 earthquakes were centered in Daly City on the northern
peninsula segment of the San Andreas fault. The 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake was centered in the southern
Santa Cruz Mountains, approximately 50 miles to the south. Ground shaking in the site area from the major historic
earthquakes was strong, to perhaps very strong in the 1906 event.

Due to its proximity to the San Andreas Fault and the generally seismically active region, it is expected that the site
area would receive very strong ground shaking but it is not anticipated that a fault ground rupture across the subject
site would occur because of the distance between the nearest mapped active fault and the site. It is not anticipated
that earthquake induced land sliding would occur given the particular soil conditions of the site surrounding the
proposed development. In addition, the risk of liquefaction is low due to the absence of ground water and the
cohesive nature of the surface soils. However, mitigation measures are identified to ensure that the project's
grading, drainage and foundation will be in compliance with recommendations by the geologist to reduce any
potential effects to an acceptable level.

The proposed garage foundation is 25 feet from the open channel of Calera Creek. The proposed driveway will
span the underground culvert that drains the creek beneath Berendos Avenue, south of the site. There was no
evidence of significant erosion of the surface soils or channel bank, and there was no evidence of seepage or
springs observed during the site investigation.

From review of previous landslide mapping and photogeologic interpretation, there is no evidence the proposed
building site is constrained by active or dormant land sliding. However, given the steepness and the underlying soil
conditions, there is potential for shallow (less than 5 feet) debris slides comprising a volume of up to 100 cubic
yards over the project lifetime.

Surface soils identified across the site are colluvial soil and undocumented fill derived from past grading activity.
The borings encountered approximately 9 feet of colluvium that gradually thickens to 12 feet at the northeast side of
the property where it is mantled by up to 9 feet of fill in the graded area at the toe of the slope. These soils were
underlain by Franciscan greenstone bedrock. Thus, the geologist determines that the surface soil is generally
cohesive in nature; however, a mitigation measure requiring replacement with non-expansive soil for the first 3 feet
will ensure that substantial risks to life and property will not occur.
                                                      -7-
                                                                                    Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                   Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                     Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                  Mitigation
                                                                                                 Incorporated



Mitigation: The following mitigation measures have been identified for this project. Implementation of these
measures would reduce potential geology impacts to less-than-significant levels.

1. Prior to issuance of a building permit, a design-level geotechnical investigation and report shall be prepared and
   submitted to the City for review and approval by the City or City designee. The geotechnical investigation shall
   ensure that given the site's geotechnical conditions and potential geologic hazards, risks due to subsidence and
   unstable soils, are minimized to an insignificant level. All measures, design criteria, and specifications in the
   geotechnical report shall be incorporated into the project design. The design level geotechnical investigation
   and report shall be peer reviewed during the plan check process. Before the building permit is issued, all
   recommendations from the City's geotechnical peer review shall be incorporated into the design of the project.
   All soil handling and conditioning measures, and structural foundations shall be designed by a licensed
   professional engineer, and all on-site soil management and conditioning activities shall be conducted under the
   supervision of a licensed Geotechnical Engineer or Certified Engineering Geologist.

2. All recommendations in the Geotechnical Investigation prepared by Earth Investigations Consultants dated
   September 21, 2006, letter dated July 13, 2007 and confirming email from staff dated December 7, 2007,
   including, but not limited to the following, shall be incorporated into the project:

        a. All building and utility improvements shall be designed and constructed in compliance with the
           California Building Code which was enacted in order to minimize any seismic impacts. Prior to
           issuance of building permits, building and utility design drawings shall be prepared and submitted to the
           City for review and confirmation that the proposed development fully complies with the building code.

        b. Addition of at least 3 feet of freeboard to the proposed retaining walls behind the house to buffer the
           house from debris flow.

        c. Grading shall be performed in the dry months between April 1 and October 31.

        d. Areas to be developed shall be stripped of the upper three feet of undocumented fill and organic
           material, and replaced with compacted non-expansive soil. Pavements shall be overexcavated to a
           minimum depth of 12 inches and replaced with non-expansive soils.

        e. Unsupported cut slopes of colluvium shall not exceed the existing site slope angle. Finished grading of
           the building site and areas of proposed new pavement shall slope at least 2 percent away from the
           foundations and pavements.

        f.   Although vertical trench excavations up to 5 feet are capable of standing with minimal bracing up to 30
             days, contractors shall be alert for instability. Trench walls deeper than 5 feet shall be cut and braced
             in accordance with the State of California Safety Ordinance treating excavations and trenches.

        g. Utility trenches shall be designed to prevent water flow into foundations, slabs or pavement subgrade
           soils and neighboring properties.

        h. The proposed house foundation walls and other retaining walls shall gain support from drilled piers that
           are interconnected with grade beams and not use isolated piers.

                                                     -8-
                                                                             Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                            Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                              Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                           Mitigation
                                                                                          Incorporated


i.   Living spaces shall be designed with raised wood floors.

j.   The compressible and expansive soils that underlie the driveway alignment and any off-street parking
     areas shall be overexcavated to a depth of 12 inches. For preliminary design purposes, driveway and
     parking area pavements shall contain a section of 2 ½ inches of asphaltic concrete underlain by 8
     inches of Class II baserock. Final pavement design will be dependent upon the anticipated traffic and
     the materials exposed at the subgrade levels.

k. Retaining walls shall be supported on piers and designed to resist an active equivalent fluid pressure of
   55 pcf acting in a triangular pressure distribution for level backfill. All retaining walls must be fully
   backdrained and fully waterproofed. Ground surface behind retaining walls shall be sloped to drain in a
   positive manner so that ponding and erosion does not occur.

l.   The driveway and paved parking areas shall drain positively away from the pavement subgrades and
     building foundations. The house and garage roofs shall be provided with gutters and downspouts to
     carry water to an approved discharge location.

m. A foundation drain shall be installed to reduce seepage into the building pad where the upslope
   foundation segment is not a foundation wall.

n. Perforated pipe for retaining wall subdrains shall be connected to an equivalent solid PVC pipe, sloped
   at least 2 percent, to carry water to the street. Cleanouts shall be provided at all bends greater than 45
   degrees, and at distances not exceeding 50 feet.

o. Isolated areas where a perimeter foundation drain is not feasible shall be provided with a well-
   developed surface drainage basin seated in a ground depression having positive slopes to the inlet.
   Surface inlets shall be at least 12 inches square.

p. Wire-mesh reinforced, concrete ratproofing over the crawl space soils shall be installed.

q. Planting trees shall be done in such a manner as to ensure that the root growth does not impact the
   foundation and in accordance with guidance from a landscaping professional.

r. Landscaping that promotes infiltration and seepage of moisture into the foundation and crawl space
   soils shall be avoided.

s. The applicant shall use stabilizing native riparian vegetation along the creek channels to prevent
   erosion.

t.   After construction, barren soil surface shall be planted with native vegetation to reduce erosion and soil
     desiccation cracking.

u. A licensed Geotechnical Engineer or Certified Engineering Geologist shall review the final foundation,
   grading and drainage plans for conformance with the items identified above. During construction, the
   geologist shall observe the rough and finished grading operations, foundation excavations prior to steel
   placement, and the installation of all drainage facilities prior to burial to ascertain that the
   recommendations in the report are implemented. Upon completion of the project, the licensed
                                              -9-
                                                                                       Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                      Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                        Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                     Mitigation
                                                                                                    Incorporated


                   Geotechnical Engineer or Certified Engineering Geologist. shall perform a site observation and report
                   the results of the work in a final report.

IV.   HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY. Would the project:

      a) Violate any water quality standards or waste discharge
         requirements? ( )                                                         ___       ___           ___                _X _

      b) Substantially deplete groundwater supplies or interfere
         substantially with groundwater recharge such that there would
         be a net deficit in aquifer volume or a lowering of the local
         groundwater table level (e.g. the production rate of pre-existing
         nearby wells would drop to a level, which would not support
         existing land uses or planned uses for which permits have been
         granted)? ( )                                                             ___              ___            ___         _X_

      c) Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of the site or area,
         including through the alteration of the course of a stream or river,
         in a manner which would result in substantial erosion or siltation
         on- or off-site? ( )                                                      ___              _ X_           __         __

      d) Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of the site or area,
         including through the alteration of the course of a stream or river,
         or substantially increase the rate or amount of surface runoff in a
         manner which would result in substantial flooding on- or off-site? ( )    ___              _ X__           ___        __

      e) Create or contribute runoff water which would exceed the capacity
         of existing or planned stormwater drainage systems or provide
         substantially additional sources of polluted runoff? ( )                  ___              _ X__          ___         ___

      f)   Otherwise substantially degrade water quality? ( )                      ___              ___            ___          _X_

      g) Place housing within a 100-year flood hazard area as mapped
         on a federal Flood Hazard Boundary or Flood Insurance Rate
         map or other flood hazard delineation map? ( )                            ___              ___            ___         _X_

      h) Place within a 100-year flood hazard area structures which
         could impede or redirect flood flows? ( )                                 ___              ___            ___          _X_

      i)   Expose people or structures to a significant risk of loss, injury
           or death involving flooding, including flooding as a result of the
           failure of a levee or dam? ( )                                          ___              ___            ___         _X_

      j)   Inundation by seiche, tsunami, or mudflow? ( )                          ___              _ X__          ___          __

      Discussion of Evaluation: The project will result in covering and/or compacting vacant land that was previously
      undeveloped, resulting in increased impermeable surfaces. The development of the property as proposed will add
                                                              - -
                                                              10
                                                                                     Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                    Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                      Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                   Mitigation
                                                                                                  Incorporated


approximately 4,000 square feet (10% of the site) of impervious surface to the watershed. Consequently, the
current absorption rates and drainage patterns would change with the proposed project or any development of the
site. Mitigation measures identified below require a drainage plan to ensure the project does not have significant
drainage impacts. In addition, given that only one dwelling is being proposed on a one acre parcel, the
groundwater supplies will not be substantially depleted nor will the project interfere substantially with groundwater
recharge. The project area is not within a 100-year flood zone.

Projects that exceed an acre of disturbed area require that a Notice of Intent (NOI) is filed with the State Water
Resources Control Board to obtain coverage under the State General Construction Activity National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit. In this case, the amount of disturbed area proposed for the
dwelling, hardscape and roadways is 4,109 square feet or 0.09 acre, which is much less than the one acre
threshold. Thus, the NPDES mandated NOI and SWPPP would not be required for this project.

The California Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) through the NPDES permit regulates stormwater
control before, during and after construction of the proposed project. Projects with impervious surface area
exceeding 10,000 square feet in size, and not determined complete prior to August 15, 2006, require compliance
with Provision C.3 of SMCWWPPP's amended NPDES permit. This project will not exceed 10,000 square feet of
impervious surface; and therefore, the C.3 provision does not apply. Nonetheless, mitigation measures identified
below require that Best Management Practices will be implemented to protect stormwater runoff from the site and
ensure that water quality is not degraded as a result of the project.

The project is not anticipated to violate any water quality standards or waste discharge requirements. The project
will be in compliance with all RWQCB requirements. The Municipal waste discharge requirements are satisfied
because staff from the Wastewater division have reviewed the project and indicated that it is in compliance with City
codes. Given compliance with all state and local requirements, the small size of the project, the large lot size and
the proposed mitigation measures, no other impacts are anticipated that would substantially degrade water quality.

The project would not expose people or structures to significant risk of loss involving flooding, and including flooding
as a result of a failure of a levee or dam in that the proposed dwelling will be placed on a hillside above the creek
and no levee or dam exists in the neighborhood. Calera Creek is contained in a culvert below the driveway, the
outlet is 25 feet way from the structures and the flow of the creek is channeled away from the dwelling. In addition,
the geologist has confirmed that the project is geotechnically feasible even though it is located near Calera Creek.

The subject site is located approximately 1.25 miles away from the Pacifica Ocean and 1.8 miles from San Andreas
Lake. Given the distance from these water bodies, the project will not be subject to a seiche or tsunami. The
subject site is located on sloped land near a creek and may have the potential for mudflows. However, the issue of
landslides has been previously addressed in the Geology and Soils section of the Initial Study, and the following
mitigation measures identified in that section would also reduce the mudflow impacts to an insignificant level: MM1
and MM2 (b), (c), (g), (k), (l), (m), (n), (o), (r), (s), (t) and (u).

The project has the potential to impact the drainage patterns resulting in erosion or flooding but Public Works staff
has identified several mitigation measures listed below to address any drainage impacts. In addition, an
Improvement Plan including drainage systems is required to ensure that the drainage system proposed for the
runoff water is adequate for the project and site, and does not result in any net increase in runoff. The drainage
system will be privately maintained. With the mitigation measures identified below to protect water quality and
surface runoff, it is anticipated that the project will not provide additional sources of substantially polluted water.

                                                      - -
                                                      11
                                                                                        Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                       Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                         Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                      Mitigation
                                                                                                     Incorporated


    Mitigation: Implementation of the following mitigation measures would reduce potential hydrology and water quality
    impacts to a less-than-significant level:

   1) San Mateo County Storm Water Pollution Best Management Practices (BMPs), described as follows, would be
      employed to ensure that water quality of surface runoff is maintained and no siltation of downstream waterways
      would occur.

       a) All project grading would take place in the dry season between April 1 and October 31 to minimize
          immediate erosion/siltation effects.

       b) Construction materials and waste shall be handled and disposed of properly in compliance with applicable
          law so as to prevent their contact with stormwater.

       c) Discharge of all potential pollutants, including pavement cutting wastes, paints, concrete, petroleum
          products, chemicals, washwater or sediments, and non-stormwater discharges to storm drains and
          watercourses shall be controlled and prevented.

       d) Sediment controls such as straw mulch, silt fences, sediment basins or traps and/or other measures shall
          be employed during construction.

       e) Tracking dirt or other materials off-site shall be avoided and off-site paved areas and sidewalks shall be
          cleaned regularly using dry sweeping methods.

       f) The contractor shall train and provide instruction to all employees and subcontractors regarding
          construction BMPs.

   2) Upon submittal of a building permit application, applicant must submit Improvement Plans that include the
      proposed drainage system, which must be approved to the satisfaction of the Public Works Deputy Director or
      the City Engineer. The Improvement Plans shall ensure that there shall be no runoff directed into the existing
      creek top of bank and the drainage system must insure that the Project does not increase total peak rates from
      the Project site. The proposed drainage system shall include but not be limited to the following:

       a) A drainage system that carries the runoff from the retaining wall drain, roof drain and site drain.

       b) Asphalt Concrete Curb shall be installed on the public right of way along the creek

       c) A headwall shall be installed at the eastern end of the existing culvert.

       d) A drainage inlet shall be installed that serves as a junction for all proposed drainage pipes. This inlet shall
          connect to the existing culvert.

       e) The proposed drainage system shall be privately maintained.

3) Replant disturbed areas with native plant species to provide long-term erosion control.

V. AIR QUALITY. Would the project:

                                                         - -
                                                         12
                                                                                        Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                       Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                         Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                      Mitigation
                                                                                                     Incorporated


a) Conflict with or obstruct implementation of the applicable
   air quality plan? ( )                                                          ___                ___            ___         _X_

b) Violate any air quality standard or contribute substantially
   to an existing or projected air quality violation? ( )                        ___                  _X_           __          __

c) Result in a cumulatively considerable net increase of any
   criteria pollutant for which the project region is non-attainment
   under an applicable federal and state ambient air quality
   standard (including releasing emissions that exceed
   quantitative thresholds for ozone precursors)? ( )                            ___                 ___            ___         _X_

d) Expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant concentrations? ( )       ___                 __X_                      _- _ _

d) Create objectionable odors affecting a substantial number
   of people? ( )                                                                ___                 ___            ___         _X_

Discussion of Evaluation: Pacifica is located along the western edge of the San Francisco Bay Area air basin, and
is affected by persistent and frequently strong winds from the Pacific Ocean. The City is also within the Bay Area
Air Quality Management District. Other than occasional violations of standards for ozone and suspended
particulate matter (PM10), within San Mateo County, the area's air quality standards are generally met. The project
site is located within an existing urbanized area characterized by existing development of various types.
Development of one single-family residential unit on the subject site of one acre would not create objectionable
odors.

While the project's small size precludes significant pollutant emissions, construction of the project would likely result
in a localized increase of dust or particulate matter generated from site grading and other soil disturbance during
construction, which may temporarily expose receptors to air pollutants. According to BAAQMD, temporary,
construction-related air quality impacts for all pollutants are considered less-than-significant if standard BAAQMD
particulate matter control measures are implemented. Therefore, the following mitigation measures will be
implemented in accordance with the BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines to further reduce particulate emissions.

Mitigation: Implementation of the following mitigation measures pursuant to Bay Area Air Quality Management
District guidelines would reduce the project's construction-related air quality impacts to a less-than-significant level:

1. Water all active construction areas at least twice daily and more often during windy periods; active areas
   adjacent to existing land uses shall be kept damp at all times, or shall be treated with non-toxic stabilizers or
   dust palliatives.

2. Cover all trucks hauling soil, sand, and other loose materials or require all trucks to maintain at least 2 feet of
   freeboard.

3. Pave, apply water three times daily, or apply (non-toxic) soil stabilizers on all unpaved access roads, parking
   areas, and staging areas at construction site.

4. Sweep daily (with water sweepers) all paved access roads, parking areas, and staging areas at construction
   sites; water sweepers shall vacuum up excess water to avoid runoff-related impacts to water quality.
                                                      - -
                                                      13
                                                                                             Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                            Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                              Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                           Mitigation
                                                                                                          Incorporated



      5. Sweep streets daily (with water sweepers) if visible soil material is carried onto adjacent public streets.

      6. Apply non-toxic soil stabilizers to inactive construction areas.

      7. Enclose, cover, water twice daily, or apply non-toxic soil binders to expose stockpiles (dirt, sand, etc.).

      8. Limit traffic speeds on unpaved roads to 15 mph.

      9. Install sandbags or other erosion control measures to prevent silt runoff to public roadways.

      10. Replant vegetation in disturbed areas as quickly as possible.

      11. Install wheel washers for all exiting trucks, or wash off the tires or tracks of all trucks and equipment leaving the
          site.

      12. Suspend excavation and grading activity when winds (instantaneous gusts) exceed 25 mph.

VI.   TRANSPORTATION/TRAFFIC. Would the project:

      a) Cause an increase in traffic which is substantial in relation
         to the existing traffic load and capacity of the street system
         (i.e., result in substantial increase in either the number of
         vehicle trips, the volume to capacity ratio on roads, or
         congestion at intersections)? (6)                                              ___               __          _              _X_

      b) Exceed, either individually or cumulatively, a level of service
         standard established by the county congestion management
         agency for designated roads or highways? (6)                                   ___               ___         ___           _X_

      c) Result in a change in air traffic patterns, including either an
         increase in traffic levels or a change in location that results in
         substantial safety risks? ( )                                                  ___        ___                _ __          _ X_

      d) Substantially increase hazards due to a design feature ( e.g. sharp
         curves or dangerous intersections) or incompatible uses
         (e.g. farm equipment)? ( )                                                     ___               ___             __         _ X_

      e) Result in inadequate emergency access? ( )                                     ___               ___             ___        _X_

      f)   Result in inadequate parking capacity? ( )                                   ___               ___             ___        _X_

      g) Conflict with adopted policies, plans, or programs supporting
         alternative transportation (e.g., bus turnouts, bicycle racks)? ( )            ___               ___             ___        _X_

      Discussion of Evaluation: Project traffic would use Berendos Avenue and Reina Del Mar Avenue to access State
      Highway 1, thereby adding incremental traffic (10 trips during an average weekday) to the intersection of Reina Del
                                                             - -
                                                             14
                                                                                            Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                           Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                             Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                          Mitigation
                                                                                                         Incorporated


       Mar and Highway 1. For signalized intersections in Pacifica, a project is considered to create a significant adverse
       impact on traffic conditions at the intersection if for any peak hour:

                 1. The level of service at the intersection degrades from an acceptable LOS D or better under background
           conditions to an unacceptable LOS E or F under project conditions, or
                 2. If the intersection is already operating at an unacceptable LOS E and the addition of project traffic
           causes both the critical movement delay at the intersection to increase by two (2) or more seconds and the
           critical demand-to-capacity (V/C) ratio to increase by more than 0.010, or
                 3. If the intersection is already operating at an unacceptable LOS F and the addition of project traffic
           causes both the critical movement delay at the intersection to increase by one (1) or more seconds and the
           demand-to-capacity (V/C) to increase by more than 0.010.

       An exception to this rule applies when the addition of project traffic reduces the amount of average delay for critical
       movements (i.e., the change in average delay for critical movements is negative). In this case the threshold of
       significance is an increase in the critical V/C value of more than 0.010.

       According to the November 7, 2007 Traffic Impact Analysis prepared by RKH Civil and Transportation Engineering,
       the project will have no calculated effect on traffic flow through the intersection of State Route 1 and Reina Del Mar
       Avenue during peak hours; and therefore, will not have a significant adverse impact on traffic conditions, as that
       term is defined above.

       The project includes a two-car garage and two open parking spaces as required by the HPD overlay. If a Variance
       request is approved; additional public parking will be provided for any visitor to the surrounding area and therefore,
       the proposed parking satisfies parking requirements for the City of Pacifica. The proposed dwelling would serve as
       a private residence; thus, the increase in traffic would be minimal and generally consistent with single-family
       residential development. Additionally, access to the proposed dwelling, including emergency vehicle access, is
       from Berendos Avenue, which abuts the project site. Existing roadway capacities are capable of supporting the
       minimal increase in traffic generated by the project and, as such, no significant impacts are anticipated. With
       respect to cumulative traffic impacts, as found by the traffic consultant's report, the project will not have any impact
       that is considered cumulatively considerable under CEQA because the incremental effects of the traffic generated
       by this one single family home are not considerable when viewed in connection with the effects of past, current and
       probable future projects in the area as determined by the traffic consultant. The construction of a new single family
       home will have no effect on air traffic patterns, or substantially increase hazards due to a design feature or
       incompatible uses. The project will have no effect on alternative transportation modes.

       Mitigation: None required.

VII.   BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES. Would the project:

       a) Have a substantial adverse effect, either directly or through
          habitat modifications, on any species identified as a
          candidate, sensitive, or special status species in local
          or regional plans, policies, or regulations, or by the
          California Department of Fish & Game or U.S. Fish &
          Wildlife Service?( )                                                          ___              _X             ___         ___

       b) Have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian
                                                             - -
                                                             15
                                                                                      Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                     Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                       Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                    Mitigation
                                                                                                   Incorporated


    habitat or other sensitive natural community identified
    in local or regional plans, policies, or regulations, or by the
    California Department of Fish & Game or U.S. Fish &
    Wildlife Service? ( )                                                          ___             X_             ___         __

c) Have a substantial adverse effect on federally protected
   Wetlands as defined by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act
   (including, but not limited to, marsh, vernal pool, coastal, etc.)
   through direct removal, filling, hydrological interruption, or
   other means? ( )                                                                ___             ___            _X_         __

d) Interfere substantially with the movement of any native resident
   or migratory fish or wildlife species or with established native
   resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or impede the use of
   native wildlife nursery sites? (6, 7,8)                                   ___            _ X_                  ___          _

e) Conflict with any local policies or ordinances protecting
   biological resources, such as a tree preservation policy or
   ordinance? (5)                                                                  ___             ___         _ __          _X_

f) Conflict with the provisions of an adopted Habitat
   Conservation Plan, Natural Community Conservation Plan,
   or other approved local, regional, or state habitat conservation
   plan? ( )                                                                       ___             ___            ___         _X_

Discussion of Evaluation: A Biological Site Assessment (including review of the redesign) was completed for the
subject site by TRA Environmental Sciences, Inc. in October 2006, and updated in July and December, 2007, and a
Tree Protection Plan was prepared by an arborist in October 2006. In addition, staff consulted with both
representatives from the State Department of Fish and Game (DFG) and the United States Department of Fish and
Wildlife (USFWS).

The property consists primarily of northern coastal scrub vegetation and eucalyptus trees, and approximately 0.15
acre area of ruderal grassland. The flat portion of the property where the project is proposed contains the highly
disturbed ruderal grassland and has very few native plants. Two soil types are present on the property. The area
where the dwelling is proposed contains Orthents, cut and fill Urban-land complex solids which were likely disturbed
when Berendos Avenue was constructed. Barnebe-Candlestick complex soils are found on the steep slopes of the
site (NCRS 2006). During inspection of the subject site, six species of birds were identified, one butterfly (Cabbage
White), one amphibian (California red-legged frog (CRLF)) and 36 plants, half of which are considered non-native
species.

The location of the subject site in relation to the nearby open space is such that no wildlife, with the exception of the
riparian species, would need to travel through the site to reach any other open space. Riparian species such as the
CRLF traveling along the riparian corridor created by Calera Creek will eventually reach the subject site and culvert.
 As stated in the assessment, a subadult CRLF was spotted in the pond below the culvert by the biologist during the
site inspection. The CRLF is a federally listed threatened species and a California species of special concern. A
USFWS representative noted that given that the site contains riparian habitat and that a CRLF was found on the
site, the San Francisco Garter Snake (SFGS) also may use the site. The SFGS is a state and federally listed
                                                        - -
                                                        16
                                                                                    Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                   Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                     Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                  Mitigation
                                                                                                 Incorporated


endangered species and a state fully protected species. However, any wildlife like the CRLF or SFGS leaving the
creek bed and heading up the hill in search of upland habitat will not likely be affected by the project because most
of the one acre site and the uphill portion will not be developed. In addition, a 25 foot buffer is included as a
mitigation measure as specified below. The 25 foot buffer will provide sufficient maneuvering area for the CRLF
and SFGS and any other riparian creatures to survive by ensuring that a corridor of habitat will be maintained that
connects the creek to the Cattle Hill area. Furthermore, the buffer, as well as mitigation measures proposed in the
Geology and Soils section (Section III, Mitigation 1 and 2), and in the Hydrology and Water Quality Section (Section
IV, Mitigation 1, 2 and 3) will prevent erosion into the creek, thereby protecting the habitat for the CRLF and SFGS.
 Additional mitigation measures are included to protect the CRLF and SFGS during construction activities.

Nine special-status wildlife species were considered for their potential to occur on site. Only the CRLF was
observed during the site investigation. Due to the habitat value of the site, the biologist concluded that there was a
low potential for Monarch butterfly or dusky footed woodrat to be present on the site. Mitigation measures have
been identified below that will protect the CRLF, SFGS, the Monarch butterfly and the dusky footed woodrat.

The subject site has trees such as the stand of eucalyptus and the Monterey pines that are identified on the plans
and discussed in the arborist report. The eucalyptus trees are not considered heritage trees but are regulated by a
logging ordinance if more that 19 trees are removed. In this case, fifteen eucalyptus trees are proposed for removal
due to location within the building pad. The biologist identified some of the branches of the eucalyptus trees and
the dense shrubs on the site as capable of supporting nests for birds but did not believe that any of the branches in
the Monterey pine trees would be large enough to support nests. Mitigation measures have been specified below
to protect nesting birds that may utilize the site.

No rare, threatened or endangered plants as identified by the California Native Plant Society were determined to
have the potential to occur within the subject site by the biologist. In addition, no evidence that special-status
natural communities were present on the subject site exists.

Agencies such as the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers (USACE) and the Regional Water Quality Control Board
(RWQCB) may regulate the creek located on the subject site. In discussing the project with the USACE, it was
determined by the USACE in a May 30, 2006 e-mail that this project would probably not need to be reviewed by
USACE. A mitigation measure is specified below to ensure that the project complies with all requirements
established by USACE and RWQCB. RWQCB also regulates stormwater runoff which is addressed by mitigation
measure #1 below.

Twenty five special-status plant species were considered for their potential to occur onsite. No special-status plant
species were found on the subject site. Due to the amount of disturbance on the property that has already occurred
and the large number of non-native species identified by the biologist, it is unlikely that any rare plants would be
found on the site. In addition, the site inspection by the biologist was conducted during a time period when many of
these plants would be in bloom; thus, making identification of any of these special-status plant species easier to
detect.

Mitigation: The following mitigation measures have been identified for this project. They are based on the
biologist's report (October 2006) and updated letters (July 27 and December 6, 2007), and communications with
USFWS and DFG representatives. Implementation of these measures would reduce potential impacts to less-than-
significant levels.


                                                     - -
                                                     17
                                                                                   Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                  Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                    Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                 Mitigation
                                                                                                Incorporated


1) Best Management Practices as previously specified in Section IV under Mitigation Measure #1 shall be
   incorporated into the project to prevent erosion and siltation from entering the creek and drainage during
   construction. Native species shall be used for long term erosion control.

2) A minimum of a 25 foot undisturbed buffer area between any portion of the building including the foundation
   and the top of the creek bank shall be maintained at all times. The buffer zone shall remain in its natural state
   and except for revegetation required by other mitigation measures, no disturbance (such as paving) shall take
   place in this area.

3) The applicant shall obtain all appropriate permits and any other required approvals from the USACE and
   RWQCB prior to building permit issuance.

4) On-site CRLF and SFGS training (including CRLF and SFGS education and reporting requirements) for
   construction personnel by an USFWS-approved CRLF and SFGS biologist shall be required prior to
   construction.

5) A 4 foot high CRLF and SFGS exclusionary fence around the construction site shall be installed prior to
   construction.

6) A preconstruction survey for CRLF and SFGS shall be conducted within 48 hours of construction starting on the
   project site. If any CRLF or SFGS are found during the survey or during construction, work shall not occur until
   USFWS has been contacted and has given their approval for work to occur.

7) A USFWS-approved CRLF and SFGS biologist shall be available on-call to visit the site in the event a CRLF or
   SFGS is found.

8) The applicant shall consult with and obtain any necessary authorizations from USFWS and DFG prior to
   building permit issuance.

9) Monarch Butterfly: If any eucalyptus trees must be removed during the monarch butterfly winter roosting
   season, (October ­ February of any given year) the site shall be surveyed by a qualified biologist to ensure that
   a roosting colony is not present. Since timing of monarch migration on the coast side varies year to year, the
   survey shall be conducted at a time to coincide with monarch roosting activity on the coast side for that
   particular year. Information on monarch roosting activity must be verified with local experts prior to conducting
   the survey. If a roosting colony is not detected, tree removal may commence and no further surveys are
   warranted. However, if a roosting colony is detected, trees shall not be removed until the winter roosting
   season has concluded (i.e. no more monarchs have been observed in the general area or using the trees). If
   trees have already been removed prior to the onset of the winter roosting season, no surveys are warranted.

10) Protection of San Francisco Dusky-footed Woodrats: Although no San Francisco dusky-footed woodrat houses
    were observed on the project site during the site visit, this species is locally common and given the habitat, a
    San Francisco dusky-footed woodrat house could be present at the time of construction. To avoid significant
    impacts to this species, a preconstruction survey shall be completed within one week prior to the start of
    construction. A qualified biologist shall perform one daytime survey for woodrat houses within the project
    footprint. If during this survey no woodrat house is detected, the project can proceed as scheduled. If during
    this survey a woodrat house is detected, one of the following avoidance/minimization measures shall be
    implemented. These measures are listed in order of priority, meaning the first measure is the preferred
                                                    - -
                                                    18
                                                                                            Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                           Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                             Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                          Mitigation
                                                                                                         Incorporated


            measure to be implemented as it provides the least amount of impact to the woodrat. If it is not feasible to
            implement the first measure due to the site conditions, the second shall be implemented.

            a) The project footprint shall be adjusted to avoid the woodrat house by at least 5 feet. Safety and silt fencing
               shall be erected around the house to avoid impacts during construction.
            b) If the project footprint must go directly through or within 5 feet of a house, CDFG shall be consulted and
               one of the two following options shall be implemented:

                      i. If the house appears inactive (e.g. no scat or fresh leaves and twigs), approval will be sought from
                         CDFG to dismantle the house and replace the lost resource by building an artificial house. One
                         artificial house shall be built for every one existing inactive house.
                     ii. If the house appears active, approval will be sought from CDFG to 1) trap the occupant(s) of the
                         house, 2) dismantle the house, 3) construct a new artificial house with the materials from the
                         dismantled house, and 4) release the occupant into the new artificial house. If there is more than
                         one occupant, a new house shall be constructed for each occupant. The new house shall be
                         placed no more than 20 feet from its original location and as far from the project footprint as
                         necessary to be protected from construction activities. If the house is to be moved downslope of
                         the project footprint, extra precautions shall be taken, such as a plywood barrier, to stop
                         falling/sliding materials from impacting the new house. Houses shall only be moved in the early
                         morning during the non-breeding season (October through February). If trapping has occurred for
                         three consecutive nights and no woodrats have been captured, the house shall be dismantled and
                         a new house constructed.

        11) If possible, all tree removal and trimming as well as ground disturbing activities shall not occur during nesting
            season from February 15 to August 31. However, if construction occurs during this time period, a qualified
            biologist shall conduct a survey for nesting birds no more than three days prior to the removal or trimming of
            any tree and prior to the start of any ground disturbing activities. If active nests are not present, construction
            can proceed. If active nests are detected, the California Department of Fish and Game (DFG) shall be
            contacted on how to proceed so as to avoid impacts to protected birds, for example by establishing a 50-foot
            radius buffer around passerine and non-passerine nests, and an up to 250-foot radius for raptors.

        12) The applicant shall not plant invasive and exotic plants for landscaping on the subject site. The invasive and
            exotic plants are on a list compiled by the California Invasive Plant Council (Cal IPC 2005).

        13) The heritage trees on site shall be preserved and protected. All recommendations in the arborist's report shall
            be incorporated into the project, including but not limited to: (a) no excavated soil shall be placed on the root
            zone, and (b) roots shall be cut with a saw or lopper and not torn with excavating equipment.

VIII.   MINERAL RESOURCES. Would the project:

        a) Result in the loss of availability of a known mineral resource
           that would be of future value to the region and the residents
           of the State? ( )                                                           ___               ___            ___         _X_

        b) Result in the loss of availability of a locally-important mineral
           resource recovery site delineated on a local general plan,
           specific plan or other land use plan? ( )                                    ___              ___            ___         _X_
                                                               - -
                                                               19
                                                                                        Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                       Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                         Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                      Mitigation
                                                                                                     Incorporated



   Discussion of Evaluation: There are no known mineral resources at the subject property and no loss of availability
   of a locally important mineral or mineral resource recovery site would occur as a result of the project.

   Mitigation: None required.

IX. HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Would the project:

   a) Create a significant hazard to the public or the environment
      through the routine transport, use, or disposal of hazardous
      materials? ( )                                                                 ___             ___            ___         _X_

   b) Create a significant hazard to the public or the environment
      through reasonably foreseeable upset and accident conditions
      involving the release of hazardous materials into the environment?             ___             ___            ___         _X_

   c) Emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous or acutely
      hazardous materials, substances, or waste within one-quarter
      mile of an existing or proposed school? ( )                                    ___             ___            ___          _X_

   d) Be located on a site which is included on a list of hazardous
      materials sites compiled pursuant to Government Code Sect.
      65962.5 and, as a result, would it create a significant hazard
      to the public or the environment? ( )                                          ___             ___            ___         _X_

   e) For a project located within an airport land use plan or, where
      such a plan has not been adopted, within two miles of a public
      airport or public use of airport, would the project result in a safety
      hazard for people residing or working in the project area? ( )                 ___             ___            ___         _X_

   f)   For a project within the vicinity of a private airstrip, would the project
        result in a safety hazard for people residing or working in the
        project area? ( )                                                            ___             ___            ___         _X_

   g) Impair implementation of or physically interfere with an adopted
      emergency response plan or emergency evacuation plan? ( )                      ___             ___         ___           _ X_

   h) Expose people or structures to significant risk of loss, injury or death
      involving wildland fires, including where wildlands are adjacent to
      urbanized areas or where residences are intermixed with wildlands? ( ) ___                     ___            ___         _X_

   Discussion of Evaluation: The site is not on the CORTESE list of hazardous waste sites. The proposed single-
   family dwelling on a one acre parcel is not expected to create a significant hazard to the public or the environment
   through construction, routine transport, use, release or disposal of hazardous materials. Minor amounts of
   hazardous materials might be used during construction, including paints, solvents, pesticides and herbicides.
   However, use and disposal of such materials in compliance with the State Health and Safety Code, Pacifica
   Municipal Code, and the Uniform Fire Code would be required.
                                                            - -
                                                            20
                                                                                          Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                         Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                           Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                        Mitigation
                                                                                                       Incorporated


     Additionally, the project contractors are required to follow the San Mateo County Storm Water Pollution Prevention
     Program Best Management Practices during construction. These regulations would apply to this project just as
     they would in every similar development.
     The proposed project would not impair implementation of or physically interfere with an adopted emergency
     response plan or emergency evacuation plan.

     The site is not within two miles of a public airport or public use airport and will not interfere with any emergency
     response or evacuation plans. The project is located in an urban area where there is no significant risk of wildland
     fires.

     Mitigation: None required.

X.   NOISE. Would the project result in:

     a) Exposure of persons or to or generation of noise levels in excess of
        standards established in the local general plan or noise ordinance,
        or applicable standards of other agencies? ( )                                ___              ___            __          _X_

     b) Exposure of persons to or generation of excessive ground borne
        vibration or ground borne noise levels? ( )                                   ___              ___            ___         _X_

     c) A substantial permanent increase in ambient noise levels in the
        project vicinity above levels existing without the project?                   ___              ___            ___         _X_

     d) A substantial temporary or periodic increase in ambient noise
        levels in the project vicinity above levels existing without the
        project?                                                             ___                _X__                  ___         __

     e) For a project located within an airport land use plan or, where
        such a plan has not been adopted, within two miles of a
        public airport or public use airport, would the project expose
        people residing or working in the project area to excessive
        noise levels?                                                                 ___              ___            ___         _X_

     f) For a project within the vicinity of a private airstrip, would the
        project exposes people residing or working in the project area
        to excessive noise levels?                                                    ___              ___            ___         _X_

     Discussion of Evaluation: The construction of one single-family unit on a one acre parcel would represent a new
     source of noise in the area. However, the anticipated noise is expected to be minimal and consistent with existing
     noise levels in the surrounding single-family neighborhood. Construction noise will occur during project
     construction, as with all new construction projects, resulting in increased exterior noise levels within the project
     vicinity. To address construction generated noise, several controls will be incorporated into the project. Specifically,
     construction activities would be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, and 9:00 a.m. to 5:00
     p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays pursuant to Section 8-1.06 (111.2) of the Pacifica Municipal Code. It should be
     noted that any impacts related to noise would be temporary, lasting only through the project construction period;

                                                            - -
                                                            21
                                                                                           Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                          Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                            Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                         Mitigation
                                                                                                        Incorporated


       typically 9-12 months for a project of this type. With the mitigation measure identified below and compliance with
       the noise ordinance, no significant impact related to noise is expected occur.

       Mitigation: Implementation of the following mitigation measure would reduce potential impacts to a less-than-
       significant level:

       1. All construction equipment shall be equipped with improved noise muffling and have the manufacturers'
          recommended noise abatement measures, such as mufflers, engine covers and engine isolators in good
          working order. All equipment shall be turned off if not in use for more than five minutes and an information sign
          shall be posted at the entrance to the construction site that identifies the permitted construction hours and
          provides a telephone number to call and receive project information or to report complaints regarding excessive
          noise levels.

XI.    PUBLIC SERVICES. Would the project result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated with the provision
       of new or physically altered government facilities, need for new or physically altered government facilities, the
       construction of which could cause significant environmental impacts, in order to main acceptable service ratios,
       response times or other performance objectives for any of the following public services:

       a) Fire protection? ( )                                                        ___               ___            ___         _X_

       b) Police protection? ( )                                                      ___               ___            ___         _X_

       c) Schools? ( )                                                                ___               ___            ___         _X_

       d) Parks? ( )                                                                  ___               ___            ___         _X_

       e) Other public facilities? ( )                                                ___               ___            ___         _X_

       Discussion of Evaluation: The construction of a single-family residential development is expected to cause an
       increase in demand for public services. The increase, however, is insignificant and is within the limits of existing
       service capacities. All departments and agencies responsible for supplying public services for this project have
       indicated their ability to meet the needs of the project. The developer will be assessed any necessary fees to cover
       these services in connection with the City's issuance of building permits for the project. Thus, no significant impact
       on Public Services would occur.

       Mitigation: None required.

XII.   UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS. Would the project:

       a) Exceed wastewater treatment requirements of the
          applicable Regional Water Quality Control Board? ( )                         ___              ___            ___         _X_

       b) Require or result in the construction of new water or
          wastewater treatment facilities or expansion of existing
          facilities, the construction of which could cause
          significant environmental effects? ( )                                      ___               ___            ___         _X_

                                                            - -
                                                            22
                                                                                              Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                             Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                               Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                            Mitigation
                                                                                                           Incorporated


        c) Require or result in the construction of new storm water
           drainage facilities or expansion of existing
           facilities, the construction of which could cause
           significant environmental effects? ( )                                         ___              ___            ___         _X_

        d) Have sufficient water supplies available to serve the
           project from existing entitlements and resources, or
           are new or expanded entitlements needed? ( )                                   __               ___            ___         _X_

        e) Result in a determination by the wastewater treatment
           provider, which serves or may serve the project that it has
           adequate capacity to serve the project's projected demand
           in addition to the provider's existing commitments?                           ___               ___            ___         _X_

        f) Be served by a landfill with sufficient permitted capacity
           to accommodate the project's solid waste disposal needs? ( )                  ___               ___            ___         _X_

        g) Comply with federal, state, and local statutes and regulations
           related to solid waste? ( )                                                    ___              ___            ___         _X_

        Discussion of Evaluation: The project is consistent with the City's General Plan, and does not exceed the expected
        growth in the City under the General Plan. Therefore, utilities and service systems needed to serve the project have
        been planned for and are available to accommodate the proposed single-family development. The appropriate
        departments and agencies have been notified about the proposal and have indicated that services and utilities are
        available. The North Coast County Water District (NCCWD or District) prepared an Urban Water Management Plan
        in December 2005, which projects and plans for water demands until 2010. This plan indicates that there is
        sufficient water to service the project. The plan analyzes the District's available sources of water supply, existing
        and estimated demand for water, and whether sufficient water supplies exist for planned development in the
        District's service area under normal and dry year conditions. On page 24 of the plan, the District concludes that
        sufficient water supplies exist for projected growth and existing uses under normal years, using growth projections
        from the City's General Plan and the U.S. Census. In conclusion, because the project is consistent with the City's
        General Plan, the Urban Water Management Plan effectively included this project in its analysis of anticipated
        growth in water demand and would be able to provide service. Lastly, electric, gas, water, storm, and sewer lines
        exist within close proximity of the project site and a condition of approval would require all new utility services to be
        underground. Thus, no significant impact on Utilities and Service Systems would occur.

        Mitigation: None required.

XIII.   AESTHETICS. Would the project:

        a) Have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic vista? ( )                       ___              ___            ___ _X_

        b) Substantially damage scenic resources, including,
           but not limited to, trees, rock outcroppings, and historic
           buildings within a state scenic highway? ( )                                   ___              ___            ___         _X_

        c) Substantially degrade the existing visual character or
                                                              - -
                                                              23
                                                                                             Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                            Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                              Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                           Mitigation
                                                                                                          Incorporated


           quality of the site and its surroundings? ( )                                  ___             ___            ___         _X__

       d) Create a new source of substantial light or glare which
          would adversely affect day or nighttime views in the area?                ___            ___                X ___          ___

       Discussion of Evaluation: The proposed project would not have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic ocean vista
       and the site is not identified in the General Plan as having the potential for designation as a scenic roadway. The
       subject site is located in an infill site in a residential neighborhood.

       The proposed project is not within the viewing corridor of a state scenic highway. The proposed multi-story single-
       family dwelling will not substantially damage natural scenic resources such as trees, rocky outcroppings and historic
       buildings. Although 15 eucalyptus trees will need to be removed for the proposed dwelling, the remaining trees will
       be preserved, including the heritage trees. No rocky outcroppings exist in the area of the site that will be developed
       with the roadways, dwelling and landscaped areas. The vacant site does not contain any historic structures.

       Implementation of the proposed project would involve development of a multi-level single-family dwelling with an
       attached garage on a currently vacant site. The project site would be graded to accommodate the proposed
       dwelling. The development including any grading for the site is limited to the footprint of the building. The site is
       one acre and 10% of the site would be covered by the building, paved area and other impervious surfaces. Thus,
       due to the minimal disturbance for development of the proposed dwelling on the subject site and the compatibility of
       the project with the surrounding neighborhood, the impact would not substantially degrade the existing visual
       character or quality of the site and its surroundings.

       Development of the proposed project would introduce new sources of light and glare, including interior and exterior
       building lighting and vehicle headlights, reflective surfaces, such as windows and light-colored paint on a hillside
       that is currently vacant. However, the proposal is limited to a multi-story single-family dwelling, which is similar to
       the surrounding Vallemar neighborhood of single-family dwellings; thus, the anticipated increase in light and glare
       impacts for one dwelling is minimal and similar to the nearby dwellings. In addition, the subject site is considered to
       be a large lot for a single-family development in that neighborhood; thus, the light and glare impacts created for one
       structure spread out over a one acre lot in comparison to light and glare impacts produced by a dwelling placed on
       a standard 5,000 square foot lot (which is more typical in that neighborhood) would be much less.

       Mitigation: None required.

XIV.   CULTURAL RESOURCES. Would the project:

       a) Cause a substantial adverse change in the significance
          of a historical resources as defined in §15064.5? ( )                        ___                ___          ___          _X_

       b) Cause a substantial adverse change in the significance
          of an archaeological resource pursuant to §15064.5? ( )                      ___                __           _ X __ _ _

       c) Directly or indirectly destroy a unique paleontological
          resource or site or unique geologic feature? ( )                             ___                __             _ X_        __

       d) Disturb any human remains, including those interred
          outside of formal ceremonies? ( )                                            ___                __             ___         _ X_
                                                             - -
                                                             24
                                                                                            Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                           Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                             Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                          Mitigation
                                                                                                         Incorporated



       Discussion of Evaluation: There are no known cultural or historical resources within the subject site or project
       vicinity. No archeological remains have been reported with the surrounding development. However, it is always
       possible that underground resources could be encountered during the project construction period. Impacts to
       unidentified resources could be significant.

       Mitigation: Implementation of the following mitigation measure would reduce potential impacts to a less-than-
       significant level:

       1) In the event that a presently undetected cultural resource, including human remains, is revealed, all
          earthmoving activity within 25 feet of the discovery will cease. The project sponsor will be obligated to retain the
          services of a qualified archaeological consultant who would examine the newly found materials, assess their
          significance and perform appropriate exploratory and investigative procedures to determine and implement the
          best course to ensure that there is no significant adverse impacts associated with cultural resources on the site.

XV.    AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES. Would the proposal:

       a) Convert Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or Farmland of Statewide
          Importance (Farmland), as shown on the maps prepared pursuant
          to the Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program of the California
          Resources Agency, to non-agricultural use?                                   ___               ___            ___         _X_

       b) Conflict with existing zoning for agricultural use, or a
          Williamson Act contract?                                                     ___               ___            ___         _X_

       c) Involve other changes in the existing environment which,
          due to their location or nature, could result in conversion of
          farmland, to non-agricultural use?                                           ___               ___            ___         _X_

       Discussion of Evaluation: The project site is zoned A/B-5 District with an HPD overlay. The project site is not under
       Williamson Act Contract. Although the site is zoned for Agricultural use, construction of a single-family dwelling is
       permitted with approval of a Use Permit and Site Development Permit. No agricultural land uses are located on or
       in close proximity to the project site. Therefore, the proposed project would not result in any significant impacts to
       agricultural resources.

       Mitigation: None required.

XVI.   RECREATION. Would the proposal:

       a) Increase the use of existing neighborhood and regional parks
          or other recreational facilities such that substantial deterioration
          of the facility would occur or be accelerated? ( )                           ___               ___            ____        _X__

       b) Include recreational facilities or require the construction or
          expansion of recreational facilities that might have an adverse
          physical effect on the environment? ( )                                      ___               ___            ___         _X__

                                                              - -
                                                              25
                                                                                               Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                              Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                                Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                             Mitigation
                                                                                                            Incorporated


        Discussion of Evaluation: The project would neither generate nor create any need for additional recreational
        opportunities or facilities within the City nor is it suitable for non-motorized modes of transportation such as hiking or
        biking. Use of local parks or recreational facilities, if any, would be minimal and would not result in any substantial
        deterioration of any such parks or facilities. Further, the project does not include the construction or expansion of
        recreational facilities. Therefore, proposed project impacts on recreational facilities would be less than significant.

        Mitigation: None required.

XVII.   MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE.

        a) Does the project have the potential to degrade the quality
           of the environment, substantially reduce the habitat of a fish
           or wildlife species, cause a fish or wildlife population to drop
           below self-sustaining levels, threaten to eliminate a plant or
           animal community, reduce the number or restrict the range
           of a rare or endangered plant or animal or eliminate
           important examples of the major periods of California history
           or prehistory?                                                                 ___               ___            ___         X

        b) Does the project have impacts that are individually limited,
           but cumulatively considerable? ("Cumulatively considerable"
           means that the incremental effects of a project are considerable
           when viewed in connection with the effects of past projects,
           the effects of other current projects, and the effects of probable
           future projects)                                                               ___                __            __          _X_

        c) Does the project have environmental effects, which will cause
           substantial adverse effects on human beings, either directly
           or indirectly?                                                                 ___               ___            ___         _X_

        Discussion of Evaluation: The proposed project involves the development of a vacant one acre lot with one single-
        family residence. The proposed project is compatible with the existing land uses in the area and will not have any
        significant impact under this heading, as mitigated under previous sections. Given the size of the project and its
        impacts and mitigation measures, the incremental effects of this single family home are not considerable when
        considered in connection with the effects of past, current and probable future projects. As discussed in Section VI
        above, the project does not have a significant cumulative traffic impact.

        This initial study found that the proposed construction of one residential unit at 200 Berendos Avenue, with
        implementation of the identified mitigation measures, will have no significant impacts on the environment, the
        habitat of fish or wildlife species or populations, plant or animal communities, rare or endangered plants or animals,
        or important examples of the major period of California history or prehistory.

        Mitigation: None required.




                                                               - -
                                                               26
                                                                                         Potential    Potential Less Than        No
                                                                                        Significant   Significant Significant   Impact
                                                                                          Impact        Unless      Impact
                                                                                                       Mitigation
                                                                                                      Incorporated


                               LIST OF REFERENCES, CONTACTS AND ATTACHMENTS
List of References

1. City of Pacifica - General Plan, as amended to June 1993.

2. City of Pacifica - Zoning Code, August 1992.

3. Earth Investigation Consultants ­ Geotechnical Investigation, September 2006 and Letter Dated July 13, 2007; email
confirmation from staff to Earth Investigation Consultants dated December 7, 2007)

4. Brian Spigelman - Tree Protection Plan, October 2006

5. TRA Environmental Sciences ­ Biological Site Assessment, October 2006, and Letters Dated July 27 and December 6,
2007

6. RKH Civil and Transportation Engineering ­ November 2007

7. FEMA - Federal Emergency Management Agency. 2005. Map of Approximate Locations of 100-year Floor Areas

8. Department of Fish and Game, Dave Johnston, email communication May, 2006

9. U.S. Army Corp of Engineers, Mark D'Avignon, Letter, May 2006

10. North Coast County Water District - Urban Water Management Plan 2006-2010, December 2005

11. Email Communications with DFG on October of 2007

12. Email and Verbal Communications with USFWS in October, November and December of 2008

Contact

Kathryn Farbstein, Assistant Planner
City of Pacifica
1800 Francisco Blvd.
Pacifica, CA 94044
(650) 738-7341

Attachments

a. Land Use and Zoning Maps

b. Project Site Maps

c. City Map/Location of Site in Relation to Highway 1 and Reina Del Mar



                                                               - -
                                                               27
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

                      FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
                CALIFORNIA DIVISION ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST
                     "DRAFT" ENVIRONMENTAL DOCUMENTS
                                        Revised September 3, 1998

THIS CHECKLIST IS A DYNAMIC WORKING DOCUMENT TO BE USED AS A TOOL TO
DEVELOP AN ADEQUATE DOCUMENT FOR APPROVAL. IT SHOULD BE USED IN
CONJUNCTION WITH OTHER APPROPRIATE GUIDANCE AND DOES NOT INCLUDE ALL
APPLICABLE FEDERAL LAWS OR REGULATIONS NOR IS IT INTENDED TO ADDRESS
THE REQUIREMENTS OF STATE AND LOCAL LAWS.

For each of the following potentially significant impacts, circle Y (yes) or N (no) if these factors are
applicable and need to be evaluated for this project. At a minimum, the following factors must be
evaluated prior to the approval for circulation of this document by FHWA, unless otherwise noted. This
includes the requirements of various Federal environmental laws, Statutes or Executive Orders (e.g., Clean
Air Act Amendments, Section 106 (Historic Preservation), Section 7 (Threatened & Endangered Species),
Section 4(f), etc.). The appropriate guidance from the FHWA Technical Advisory (TA) T6640.8A
October 30, 1987 Attachment, is modified as needed to fit the checklist format and is provided in
  italics after every subject, as applicable.

To help facilitate the review of the document it is recommended that the document page numbers be cross-
referenced onto the checklist next to the appropriate subject.

R.C. RECURRING COMMENTS MADE ON ENVIRONMENTAL DOCUMENTS
____________________________________________________________________________________
DISTRICT:                 COUNTY:                   ROUTE:
POSTMILE:
FEDERAL-AID PROJECT NO:
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
____________________________________________________________________________________
I. COVER SHEET
      A. Includes information on page 11 in TA.

        R.C.:
        -- Only federal agencies that have formally accepted cooperating agency status are listed
        (letters from agencies in appendix).
        -- Abstract includes listing of important social, economic, and environmental impacts
        expected.
        -- Citations referenced are correct.
        -- End of comment date listed is a minimum of 45 days from the date of the Federal
        Register availability.
        -- The FHWA signature block on the title page reads:
                        Division Administrator
                        Federal Highway Administration

II. SUMMARY
      A. Includes the following (from TA, pp. 12-13):
             1. A brief description of the proposed FHWA action indicating route, termini,
             type of improvement, number of lanes, length, county, city, State, and other

                                                    1                          Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

              information, as appropriate.
              2. A description of any major actions proposed by other governmental agencies
              in the same geographic area as the proposed FHWA action.
              3. A summary of all reasonable alternatives considered (The draft EIS must
              identify the preferred alternative or alternatives officially identified by the HA).
              4. A summary of major environmental impacts, both beneficial and adverse.
              5. Any areas of controversy (including issues raised by agencies and the public).
              6. Any major unresolved issues with other agencies.
              7. A list of other Federal actions required for the proposed action (i.e., permit
              approvals, land transfer, Section 106 agreements, etc.).

III. TABLE OF CONTENTS
       A. Includes the following headings (p. 13 of TA):
              1. Cover Sheet
              2. Summary
              3. Table of Contents
              4. Purpose of and Need for Action
              5. Alternatives
              6. Affected Environment
              7. Environmental Consequences
              8. List of Preparers
              9. List of Agencies, Organizations, and persons to whom copies of the document
              are sent
              10. Comments and Coordination
              11. Index
              12. Appendices (if any)
       B. Lists Section 4(f) Evaluation, if appropriate.
       C. Includes listing of figures and tables.

IV. PURPOSE AND NEED OF PROJECT (Refer to Purpose and Need Policy Paper, the
NEPA/404 Merger Agreement and Guidance Papers)
      A. Identifies the transportation problem with supporting data and proposed solutions to
      the problem.
      B. Establishes level of service (LOS) objective, if any.

       R.C.:
       -- This section should include a summary of how the project purpose and need was
       identified in the planning process and a summary of relevant studies.
       -- The traffic and transportation conditions that the project is intended to address are
       discussed here and not in the Affected Environment Section.
       -- The purpose and need discussed is the purpose and need for the project, not for the EIS.

       TA Guidance:
       This section should identify and describe the proposed action and the transportation
       problem(s) or other needs which it is intended to address (40 CFR 1502.13). This
       section should clearly demonstrate that a "need" exists and should define the "need" in
       terms understandable to the general public. This discussion should clearly describe the

                                                2                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       problems which the proposed action is to correct. It will form the basis for the "no
       action" discussion in the "Alternatives" section, and assist with the identification of
       reasonable alternatives and the selection of the preferred alternative. Charts, tables,
       maps, and other illustrations (e.g., typical cross-section, photographs, etc.) are
       encouraged as useful presentation techniques.

       The following list may assist in the explanation of the need for the proposed action. It is
       not all-inclusive or applicable in every situation and is intended only as a guide.
       1. Project Status - Briefly describe the project history including actions taken to date,
       other agencies and governmental units involved, action spending, schedules, etc.
       2. System Linkage - Is the proposed project a "connecting link?" How does it fit in the
       transportation system?
       3. Capacity - Is the capacity of the present facility inadequate for the present traffic?
       Projected traffic? What capacity is needed? What is the level(s) of service for existing
       and proposed facilities?
       4. Transportation Demand - Including relationship to any statewide plan or adopted
       urban transportation plan together with an explanation of the project's traffic forecasts
       that are substantially different from those estimates from the 23 U.S.C. 134 (Section 134)
       planning process.
       5. Legislation - Is there a Federal, State, or local governmental mandate for the action?
       6. Social Demands or Economic Development - New employment, schools, land use
       plans, recreation, etc. What projected economic development/land use changes indicate
       the need to improve or add to the highway capacity?
       7. Modal Interrelationships - How will the proposed facility interface with and serve to
       complement airports, rail and port facilities, mass transit services, etc.?
       8. Safety - Is the proposed project necessary to correct an existing or potential safety
       hazard? Is the existing accident rate excessively high? Why? How will the proposed
       project improve it?
       9. Roadway Deficiencies - Is the proposed project necessary to correct existing roadway
       deficiencies (e.g., substandard geometrics, load limits on structures, inadequate
       cross-section, or high maintenance costs)? How will the proposed project improve it?
       10. Where new pedestrian or bicycle facilities are proposed as a part of the proposed
       highway project, the EIS should include sufficient information to explain the basis for
       providing the facilities (e.g., proposed bicycle facility is a link in the local plan or
       sidewalks will reduce project anticipated access impact to the community).

V. ALTERNATIVES
(See also Alternatives Guidance Papers and the NEPA/404 Agreement)
        A. Includes discussion and description of all reasonable alternatives and the "no action"
        alternative including estimated costs information.
        B. Includes discussion on mass transit alternatives if in urbanized areas over 200,000
        population.
        C. Demonstrates that Single Occupant Vehicle capacity increasing projects come from or
        are consistent with the State Congestion Management Plan and that all reasonably
        available travel demand reduction and operational management strategies have been
        adopted for the proposed project and project corridor.
        D. Considers Transportation System Management (TSM) alternatives.

                                                3                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       E. Summarizes and references Major Investment Study (MIS), if developed separately
       (reference 23 CFR 450.318 and August 25, 1994 FHWA Questions and Answers on MIS
       Paper).
       F. Explains in detail "other alternatives" previously considered in project development
       and why they were eliminated or rejected.
       G. Evaluates all reasonable alternatives including the "no action" to a comparable level
       of detail.
       H. Includes supporting information if a "preferred alternative" is identified.

       R.C.:
       -- Includes a summary of the screening process for eliminating the alternatives rejected
       during transportation planning.
       -- Includes a statement that indicates the final selection of an alternative will not be made
       until after the consideration of impacts and the public hearing comments and following
       approval of the final EIS.
       -- Includes 20-year traffic projection based upon anticipated Project Specifications and
       Estimates' (PS&Es) approval date.
       -- Discusses analysis of all alternatives including full and non-standard approved design.
       Also discusses any non-standard features.
       -- Includes pictorial of the six levels of service (LOS).

       TA Guidance:
       This section of the draft EIS must discuss a range of alternatives, including all
       "reasonable alternatives" under consideration and those "other alternatives" which were
       eliminated from detailed study (23 CFR 771.123(c)). The section should begin with a
       concise discussion of how and why the "reasonable alternatives" were selected for
       detailed study and explain why "other alternatives" were eliminated. The following
       range of alternatives should be considered when determining reasonable alternatives:

       1. "No-action" alternative: The "no-action" alternative normally includes short-term
       minor restoration types of activities (safety and maintenance improvements, etc.) that
       maintain continuing operation of the existing roadway.

       2. Transportation System Management (TSM) alternative: The TSM alternative includes
       those activities which maximize the efficiency of the present system. Possible subject
       areas to include in this alternative are options such as fringe parking, ridesharing,
       high-occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes on existing roadways, and traffic signal timing
       optimization. This limited construction alternative is usually relevant only for major
       projects proposed in urbanized areas over 200,000 population.

       For all major projects in these urbanized areas, HOV lanes should be considered.
       Consideration of this alternative may be accomplished by reference to the regional
       transportation plan, when that plan considers this option. Where a regional
       transportation plan does not reflect consideration of this option, it may be necessary to
       evaluate the feasibility of HOV lanes during early project development. Where a TSM
       alternative is identified as a reasonable alternative for a "connecting link" project, it
       should be evaluated to determine the effect that not building a highway link in the

                                                 4                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       transportation plan will have on the remainder of the system. A similar analysis should
       be made where a TSM element(s) (e.g., HOV lanes) is part of a build alternative and
       reduces the scale of the highway link.

       While the above discussion relates primarily to major projects in urbanized areas, the
       concept of achieving maximum utilization of existing facilities is equally important in
       rural areas. Before selecting an alternative on new location for major projects in rural
       areas, it is important to demonstrate that reconstruction and rehabilitation of the existing
       system will not adequately correct the identified deficiencies and meet the project need.

       3. Mass Transit: This alternative includes those reasonable and feasible transit options
       (bus systems, rail, etc.) even though they may not be within the existing FHWA funding
       authority. It should be considered on all proposed major highway projects in urbanized
       areas over 200,000 population. Consideration of this alternative may be accomplished
       by reference to the regional or area transportation plan where that plan considers mass
       transit or by an independent analysis during early project development.

       Where urban projects are multi-modal and are proposed for Federal funding, close
       coordination is necessary with the Federal Transportation Administration (FTA). In
       these situations, FTA should be consulted early in the project-development process.
       Where FTA funds are likely to be requested for portions of the proposal, FTA must be
       requested to be either a joint lead agency or a cooperating agency at the earliest stages
       of project development (23 CFR 771.111(d)). Where applicable, cost-effectiveness
       studies that have been performed should be summarized in the EIS.

       4. Build alternatives: Both improvement of existing highway(s) and alternatives on new
       location should be evaluated. A representative number of reasonable alternatives must
       be presented and evaluated in detail in the draft EIS (40 CFR 1502.14(a)). For most
       major projects, there is a potential for a large number of reasonable alternatives. Where
       there is a large number of alternatives, only a representative number of the most
       reasonable examples, covering the full range of alternatives, must be presented. The
       determination of the number of reasonable alternatives in the draft EIS, therefore,
       depends on the particular project and the facts and circumstances in each case.

       Each alternative should be briefly described using maps or other visual aids such as
       photographs, drawings, or sketches to help explain the various alternatives. The
       material should provide a clear understanding of each alternative's termini, location,
       costs, and the project concept (number of lanes, right-of-way requirements, median
       width, access control, etc.). Where land has been or will be reserved or dedicated by
       local government(s), donated by individuals, or acquired through advanced or hardship
       acquisition for use as highway right-of-way for any alternative under consideration, the
       draft EIS should identify the status and extent of such property and the alternatives
       involved. Where such lands are reserved, the EIS should state that the reserved lands
       will not influence the alternative to be selected.

       Development of more detailed design for some aspects (e.g., Section 4(f), COE or USCG
       permits, noise, wetlands, etc.) of one or more alternatives may be necessary during

                                                5                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       preparation of the draft and final EIS in order to evaluate impacts or mitigation
       measures or to address issues raised by other agencies or the public. However, care
       should be taken to avoid unnecessarily specifying features which preclude cost-effective
       final design options.

       All reasonable alternatives under consideration (including the no-build) need to be
       developed to a comparable level of detail in the draft EIS so that their comparative merits
       may be evaluated (40 CFR 1502.14(b) and (d)). In those situations where the HA has
       officially identified a "preferred" alternative based on its early coordination and
       environmental studies, the HA should so indicate in the draft EIS. In these instances, the
       draft EIS should include a statement indicating that the final selection of an alternative
       will not be made until the alternatives' impacts and comments on the draft EIS and from
       the public hearing (if held) have been fully evaluated. Where a preferred alternative has
       not been identified, the draft EIS should state that all reasonable alternatives are under
       consideration and that a decision will be made after the alternatives' impacts and
       comments on the draft EIS and from the public hearing (if held) have been fully
       evaluated.

VI AFFECTED ENVIRONMENT
The following is a reminder of the issues that should be addressed to describe the existing
conditions in the study area affected by all reasonable alternatives. The outline format is used
only for ease of referencing and follows the TA format. Discussion of the information is not
restricted to the listed headings but may be contained under broader or narrower subheadings.
The discussion should be limited to information, issues, and values that have a bearing on
possible impacts, mitigation and selection of an alternative. Data and analysis should be
commensurate with the importance of the impact. Photographs, illustrations and other graphics
should be used with the text. A statement that an issue listed below is not pertinent within the
project study area should be included when appropriate.

       A. LAND USE (p. 19 of TA)
            1. Includes a Regional summary.
            2. Identifies the study area.
            3. Includes a brief description of the scope and status of planning processes for
            the local jurisdictions, including conformance with local comprehensive plans.
            4. Includes map showing existing and planned land use (farmland, parks,
            community and recreational facilities, etc., by type) and transportation plans.

       TA Guidance:
       This discussion should identify the current development trends and the State and/or local
       government plans and policies on land use and growth in the area which will be
       impacted by the proposed project. These plans and policies are normally reflected in the
       area's comprehensive development plan, and include land use, transportation, public
       facilities, housing, community services, and other areas.

       B. FARMLAND (pp. 19-20 of TA)                      Required for this project? Y or N
            1. Describes existing farmlands and consultation done to identify them.
              Farmland protected under the Farmland Protection Act includes prime and

                                                6                       Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

              unique farmland and other farmland of statewide or local importance.
              2. Summarizes appropriate parts of Natural Resources Conservation Service
              (NRCS) form AD 1006 farmland determination (includes form in appendix).
              3. Where farmland would be impacted, a map showing the location of all
              farmlands in the project impact area.

       C. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC (pp 20-22 of TA)
            1. Includes demographic data (i.e., age, ethnicity, and income) from most recent
            census.
            2. Discusses locations and sense of neighborhood and community cohesion
            relative to alternatives.
            3. Identifies community resources (parks, churches, shopping, schools,
            emergency services, libraries, etc.).
            4. Discusses existing travel patterns.
            5. Discusses existing types of housing and businesses.
            6. Discusses employment and tax base.

       TA Guidance:
       Where there are foreseeable impacts, the draft EIS should discuss the following items
       commensurate with the level of potential impacts and to the extent they are
       distinguishable:
       (a) Existing neighborhoods or community cohesion for the various social groups,
       development trends, property values trend, etc.
       (b) Existing travel patterns and accessibility (e.g., vehicular, commuter, bicycle, or
       pedestrian).
       (c) Existing school districts, recreation areas, churches, businesses, police and fire
       protection, etc.
       (d) Identifiable general social groups that could be benefitted or harmed by the proposed
       project. The elderly, handicapped, nondrivers, transit-dependent, and minority and
       ethnic groups are of particular concern. Secondary sources of information such as
       census and personal contact with community leaders supplemented by visual inspections
       normally should be used to obtain these data. However, for projects with potentially
       major community impacts, a survey of the affected area may be needed to adequately
       evaluate the extent and severity of impacts of the various alternatives on these social
       groups.

       D. PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE FACILITIES Required for this project? Y or N
            1. Identifies any existing facilities and their use (recreation-4(f) or transportation).
            2. Discuss local and regional plans for existing and future facilities.

       E. AIR QUALITY                                         Required for this project? Y or N
             1. Identifies relevant pollutants and their National Ambient Air Quality Standards
             (NAAQS) in existing air quality.
             2. Discusses regional compliance with NAAQS (TIP & RTP conformity to SIP).
             3. Indicates attainment/non-attainment status of the area for CO, Ozone, PM10,
             and NOx.


                                                 7                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       F. WATERWAYS & HYDROLOGIC SYSTEMS Required for this project? Y or N
            1. Identifies public water sources, aquifers (with emphasis on sole-source
            aquifers), wellhead protection areas, and watersheds (drainage patterns,
            intermittent runoff channels).
            2. Identifies lakes, bays, streams.
            3. Coastal resources.
            4. National Wild and Scenic Rivers.
            5. Areas within Coastal Zone Management Program.
            6. Areas subject to Coastal Barrier Resources Act.
            7. Wetlands (discussion should not be unnecessarily repeated under a separate
            heading).
            8. Factors that influence percolation and infiltration (now discussed under Water
            Quality).

       R.C.:
       -- Identifies beneficial uses of surface waters.
       -- Discusses only resources that could be affected by implementation of the project.
       -- Discusses resource parameters or characteristics of concern that could be affected by
       project alternatives.

       WATER QUALITY
       Water quality can be discussed in Waterways and Hydrologic Systems (preferable) or
       under a separate section. If it is discussed under a separate section, it should not
       unnecessarily repeat the information. The discussion should include the following;
              1. Water bodies that may receive runoff from the project.
              2. Ground water conditions along alternatives alignment.
              3. Discussion of water quality parameters that may be affected by the project.
              4. Identification of major aquifers, if not done under Waterways and Hydrologic
              Systems.

       TA Guidance:
       The draft EIS should include summaries of analyses and consultations with the State
       and/or local agency responsible for water quality. Coordination with the EPA under the
       Federal Clean Water Act may also provide assistance in this area. The discussion should
       include sufficient information to describe the ambient conditions of streams and water
       bodies which are likely to be impacted and identify the potential impacts of each
       alternative and proposed mitigation measures. Under normal circumstances, existing
       data may be used to describe ambient conditions. The inclusion of water quality data
       spanning several years is encouraged to reflect trends.
       The draft EIS should also identify any locations where roadway runoff or other nonpoint
       source pollution may have an adverse impact on sensitive water resources such as water
       supply reservoirs, ground water recharge areas, and high quality streams.

       G. WETLANDS/WATERS OF THE U.S.                          Required for this project? Y or N
       (Including agricultural wetlands) (p. 17 of TA)
       The text needs to indicate whether waters of the U.S. are in the project area.
              1. If there are no waters of the U.S. in the project area, the discussion should

                                                8                       Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

              provide the basis for and conclude that there are no waters of the U.S. in the
              project area.
              2. If there are waters of the U.S. in the project area, the discussion should
                      a. Include and reference the location(s) of copies of Corps and other
                      appropriate agencies (NEPA/404 Agreement agencies) letters concurring
                      in the Purpose and Need and the Alternatives evaluated in the EIS (Not
                      required for wetland covered by Nationwide permits).
                      b. Includes an exhibit or exhibits depicting the waters of the U.S. in the
                      project area relative to the alternatives under consideration, including
                      identification of the location(s) of any associated sensitive species habitat
                      or special aquatic sites.
                      c. Provides a concise description of the waters of the U.S. in the project
                      area;
                      d. Briefly describes all sensitive resources associated with the waters of
                      the U.S. in the project area; and
                      e. Refers to the location(s) for the exhibits depicting the waters of the
                      U.S., special aquatic sites, and associated sensitive species habitat.

       H. WILDLIFE, FISHERIES AND                          Required for this project? Y or N
            VEGETATION
            1. Discusses ecosystems (wildlife and vegetation), fisheries and any sensitive
            species.
            2. Discusses wildlife and fish migration patterns and existing obstacles to
            migration.
            3. Discuss threatened and endangered species under a separate heading.

       I. FLOODPLAIN                                         Required for this project? Y or N
             1. Identifies base flood plains (100 year) using National Flood Insurance Program
             (NFIP) maps or other maps developed by the highway agency. If the NFIP maps
             do not exist, the agency must develop the needed maps so that the floodplain can
             be identified.
             2. Identifies natural and beneficial floodplain values.

       J. WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS                             Required for this project? Y or N
             1. Summarizes the coordination with Federal Land agency to determine presence
             of river on or under study for inclusion on the National Wild and Scenic Rivers
             System (possible Section 4(f)).

       TA Guidance:
       If the proposed action could have foreseeable adverse effects on a river on the National
       Wild and Scenic Rivers System or a river under study for designation to the National
       Wild and Scenic Rivers System, the draft EIS should identify early coordination
       undertaken with the agency responsible for managing the listed or study river (i.e.,
       National Park Service (NPS), Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), Bureau of Land
       Management (BLM), or Forest Service (FS)). The EIS should identify the natural,
       cultural, and recreational values of the listed or study river.


                                                9                         Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       Publicly owned waters of designated wild and scenic rivers are protected by Section 4(f).
        Additionally, public lands adjacent to a Wild and Scenic River may be subject to Section
       4(f) protection. An examination of any adopted or proposed management plan for a
       listed river should be helpful in making the determination on applicability of Section 4(f).

       K. COASTAL BARRIERS
       Note: There are no designated coastal barriers in California as of February 1995.

       L. COASTAL ZONE (page 31 of TA)                  Required for this project? Y or N
            1. Identifies Coastal Zone Management Program (CZMP) area.

       TA Guidance:
       Where the proposed action is within, or is likely to affect land or water uses within the
       area covered by a State Coastal Zone Management Program (CZMP) approved by the
       Department of Commerce, the draft EIS should briefly describe the portion of the affected
       CZMP plan, identify the potential impacts, and include evidence of coordination with the
       State Coastal Zone Management agency or appropriate local agency. (Additional
       guidance under Environmental Consequences)

       M. THREATENED AND ENDANGERED                       Required for this project? Y or N
            SPECIES
            1. Includes a summary of the biological studies specific to threatened and
            endangered species.
            2. Refers to and includes in the appendix, recent Fish and Wildlife Service
            (FWS) and/or National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) letters identifying
            species and critical habitat.

       TA Guidance:
       The SHA must obtain information from the FWS of the DOI and/or the National Marine
       Fisheries Service (NMFS) of the Department of Commerce to determine the presence or
       absence of listed and proposed threatened or endangered species and designated and
       proposed critical habitat in the proposed project area (50 CFR 402.12(c)). The
       information may be (1) a published geographical list of such species or critical habitat;
       (2) a project-specific notification of a list of such species or critical habitat; or (3)
       substantiated information from other credible sources. Where the information is
       obtained from a published geographical list the reasons why this would satisfy the
       coordination with DOI should be explained. If there are no species or critical habitat in
       the proposed project area, the Endangered Species Act requirements have been met. The
       results of this coordination should be included in the draft EIS.

       N. HISTORIC AND ARCHAEOLOGICAL                       Required for this project? Y or N
             PRESERVATION
             1. Includes identification and description of National Register of Historic Places
             (NRHP) listed and eligible historic and archeological resources for each
             reasonable alternative.
             2. Refers to and includes in the appendix a concurrence in eligibility letter from
             State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) for property affected by each

                                                10                       Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

              reasonable alternative.

       TA Guidance:
       The draft EIS should contain a discussion demonstrating that historic and archeological
       resources have been identified and evaluated in accordance with the requirements of 36
       CFR 800.4 for each alternative under consideration. The information and level of effort
       needed to identify and evaluate historic and archeological resources will vary from
       project to project as determined by the FHWA after considering existing information, the
       views of the SHPO and the Secretary of Interior's "Standards and Guidelines for
       Archeology and Historic Preservation." The information for newly identified historic
       resources should be sufficient to determine their significance and eligibility for the
       National Register of Historic Places. The information for archeological resources
       should be sufficient to identify whether each warrants preservation in place or whether it
       is important chiefly because of what can be learned by data recovery and has minimal
       value for preservation in place. Where archeological resources are not a major factor in
       the selection of a preferred alternative, the determination of eligibility for the National
       Register of newly identified archeological resources may be deferred until after
       circulation of the draft EIS.

       The draft EIS discussion should briefly summarize the methodologies used in identifying
       historic and archeological resources. Because Section 4(f) of the DOT Act applies to the
       use of historic resources on or eligible for the National Register and to archeological
       resources on or eligible for the National Register and which warrant preservation in
       place, the draft EIS should describe the historical resources listed in or eligible for the
       National Register and identify any archeological resources that warrant preservation in
       place. The [Affected Environment Section] document should evidence coordination with
       the SHPO on the significance of newly identified historic and archeological resources
       and the eligibility of historic resources for the National Register. Where the draft EIS
       discusses eligibility for the National Register of archeological resources, the
       coordination with the SHPO on eligibility and effect should address both historic and
       archeological resources.

       The proposed use of land from an historic resource on or eligible for the National
       Register will normally require an evaluation and approval under Section 4(f) of the DOT
       Act. Section 4(f) also applies to all archeological sites on or eligible for the National
       Register and which warrant preservation in place (see discussion on Section 4(f)
       evaluation).

       O. HAZARDOUS WASTE SITES                          Required for this project? Y or N
            (page 34 of TA)
            1. Identifies known and potential sites.
            2. Coordinates with the EPA and the state agency to help identify sites, as
            appropriate.

       TA Guidance:
       Hazardous waste sites are regulated by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
       (RCRA) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability

                                                11                       Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       Act (CERCLA). During early planning, the location of permitted and nonregulated
       hazardous waste sites should be identified. Early coordination with the appropriate
       Regional Office of the EPA and the appropriate State agency will aid in identifying
       known or potential hazardous waste sites. If known or potential waste sites are
       identified, the locations should be clearly marked on a map showing their relationship to
       the alternatives under consideration. If a known or potential hazardous waste site is
       affected by an alternative, the effects should be discussed in the Environmental
       Consequences Section.

       P. VISUAL (page 34-35 of TA)                             Required for this project? Y or N
             1. Identifies sensitive visual resources.
             2. Indicates if project is in a visually sensitive urban or rural setting.

       TA Guidance:
       The draft EIS should state whether the project alternatives have a potential for visual
       quality impacts. When this potential exists, the draft EIS [Affected Environment Section]
       should identify the existing visual resource and the potential viewers of and from the
       project. When there is potential for visual quality impacts, the draft EIS should explain
       the consideration given to design quality, art, and architecture in the project planning.
       These values may be particularly important for facilities located in visually sensitive
       urban or rural settings. When a proposed project will include features associated with
       design quality, art or architecture, the draft EIS should be circulated to officially
       designated State and local arts councils and, as appropriate, other organizations with an
       interest in design, art, and architecture.

VII. ENVIRONMENT CONSEQUENCES (Avoid, Minimize, and Mitigate)
      The document must fully describe the probable impacts in the study area affected by all
      reasonable alternatives. All measures proposed to mitigate any adverse impacts identified
      must be included or an explanation as to why the mitigation would not be a reasonable,
      feasible or prudent expenditure of public funds. A statement that a given subject area
      listed below is not applicable for the particular project study area is recommended when
      appropriate.

       A. LAND USE IMPACTS
            1. Discusses consistency of the alternatives with land use plans.
            2. Discusses growth inducement:
                   a. Future development trends and land use planning efforts.
                   b. Indirect effects of the project on land use patterns, population density
                   and growth rate.
                   c. Identify any development prohibited from proceeding unless the project
                   is approved.

       R.C.:
       -- Includes a statement, if applicable, that "(T)he proposed transportation project is
       intended to meet the existing and/or projected traffic demand based upon the local land
       use plans."


                                               12                      Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       TA Guidance:
       This discussion should address how the alternatives will affect current development
       trends and their consistency with the State and/or local government plans and policies on
       land use and growth in the area.

       The land use discussion should assess the consistency of the alternatives with the
       comprehensive development plans adopted for the area and (if applicable) other plans
       used in the development of the transportation plan required by Section 134. The
       secondary social, economic, and environmental impacts of any substantial, foreseeable,
       induced development should be presented for each alternative, including adverse effects
       on existing communities. Where possible, the distinction between planned and unplanned
       growth should be identified.

       B. FARMLAND IMPACTS                                Required for this project? Y or N
            1. Discusses impacts to farmland in the project area.
            2. Summarizes results of coordination with NRCS.

       R.C.:
       -- Provides alternatives to avoid farmland impacts if feasible on scores of 160 points or
       greater on NRCS form AD 1006.

       TA Guidance:
       The draft EIS should summarize the results of early consultation with the Natural
       Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) and, as appropriate, State and local agriculture
       agencies where any of the four specified types of farmland could be directly or indirectly
       impacted by any alternative under consideration. Where farmland would be impacted,
       the draft EIS should contain a map showing the location of all farmlands in the project
       impact area, discuss the impacts of the various alternatives and identify measures to
       avoid or reduce the impacts. Form AD 1006 (Farmland Conversion Impact Rating)
       should be processed, as appropriate, and a copy included in the draft EIS. Where the
       Land Evaluation and Site Assessment score (from Form AD 1006) is 160 points or
       greater, the draft EIS should discuss alternatives to avoid farmland impacts. If
       avoidance is not possible, measures to minimize or reduce the impacts should be
       evaluated and, where appropriate, included in the proposed action.
       C. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC IMPACTS                          Required for this project? Y or N
       (Also use other available guidance, such as guidance on Environmental Justice)
              1. Discusses neighborhood and community cohesion.
              2. Addresses impacts on travel patterns, accessibility, community facilities,
              overall public safety.
              3. Discusses impacts on economic vitality in project area and on established
              business districts, including employment effects, if any.
              4. Identifies any contacts with community, city or county leaders.
              5. Complies with Executive Order 12898, DOT Environmental Justice guidance.

       TA Guidance:
       SOCIAL ELEMENTS:
       Where there are foreseeable impacts, the draft EIS should discuss the following items for

                                                13                       Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       each alternative commensurate with the level of impacts and to the extent they are
       distinguishable:
       1. Changes in the neighborhoods or community cohesion for the various social groups
       as a result of the proposed action. These changes may be beneficial or adverse, and may
       include splitting neighborhoods, isolating a portion of a neighborhood or an ethnic
       group, generating new development, changing property values, or separating residents
       from community facilities, etc.
       2. Changes in travel patterns and accessibility (e.g., vehicular, commuter, bicycle, or
       pedestrian).
       3. Impacts on school districts, recreation areas, churches, businesses, police and fire
       protection, etc. This should include both the direct impacts to these entities and the
       indirect impacts resulting from the displacement of households and businesses.
       4. Impacts of alternatives on highway and traffic safety as well as on overall public
       safety.
       5. General social groups specially benefitted or harmed by the proposed project
       alternatives. The effects of a alternatives on the elderly, handicapped, nondrivers,
       transit-dependent, and minority and ethnic groups are of particular concern and should
       be described to the extent these effects can be reasonably predicted. Where impacts on a
       minority or ethnic population are likely to be an important issue, the EIS should contain
       the following information broken down by race, color, and national origin: the
       population of the study area, the number of displaced residents, the type and number of
       displaced businesses, and an estimate of the number of displaced employees in each
       business sector. Changes in ethnic or minority employment opportunities should be
       discussed and the relationship of the project to other Federal actions which may serve or
       adversely affect the ethnic or minority population should be identified.

       The discussion should address whether any social group is disproportionally impacted
       and identify possible mitigation measures to avoid or minimize any adverse impacts.
       Secondary sources of information such as census and personal contact with community
       leaders supplemented by visual inspections normally should be used to obtain the data
       for this analysis. However, for projects with major community impacts, a survey of the
       affected area may be needed to identify the extent and severity of impacts on these social
       groups.
       ECONOMIC ELEMENTS:
       There are foreseeable economic impacts, the draft EIS should discuss the following for
       each alternative commensurate with the level of impacts:
       1. The economic impacts on the regional and/or local economy such as the effects of the
       project on development, tax revenues and public expenditures, employment opportunities,
       accessibility, and retail sales. Where substantial impacts on the economic viability of
       affected municipalities are likely to occur, they should also be discussed together with a
       summary of any efforts undertaken and agreements reached for using the transportation
       investment to support both public and private economic development plans. To the extent
       possible, this discussion should rely upon results of coordination with and views of
       affected State, county, and city officials and upon studies performed under Section 134.
       2. The impacts on the economic vitality of existing highway-related businesses (e.g.,
       gasoline stations, motels, etc.) and the resultant impact, if any, on the local economy.
       For example, the loss of business or employment resulting from building an alternative

                                               14                       Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       on new location bypassing a local community.
       3. Impacts of the proposed action on established business districts, and any
       opportunities to minimize or reduce such impacts by the public and/or private sectors.
       This concern is likely to occur on a project that might lead to or support new large
       commercial development outside of a central business district.

       D. RELOCATION IMPACTS                                Required for this project? Y or N
            1. Identifies and describes residential (number and type of dwelling and price
            range, tenants and owners) and non-residential (types of businesses) displacees for
            all reasonable alternatives.
            2. Refers to or summarizes the preliminary relocation study including right-of-
            way cost estimates.
            3. Discusses available replacement dwellings and business sites based on current
            market data.
            4. Discusses and refers to the Relocation Assistance Program including the types
            of benefits available to residential and business displacees (including Last Resort
            Housing, if applicable) and Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. A detailed
            summary of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition
            Policies Act of 1970, as amended, should be included in the appendix, if
            appropriate.

       R.C.:
       -- Includes a statement, if applicable, that "(T)he acquisition and relocation program will
       be conducted in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property
       Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended."

       TA Guidance:
       The relocation information should be summarized in sufficient detail to adequately
       explain the relocation situation including anticipated problems and proposed solutions.
       Project relocation documents from which information is summarized should be
       referenced in the draft EIS. Secondary sources of information such as census, economic
       reports, and contact with community leaders, supplemented by visual inspections (and, as
       appropriate, contact with local officials) may be used to obtain the data for this analysis.
        Where a proposed project will result in displacements, the following information
       regarding households and businesses should be discussed for each alternative under
       consideration commensurate with the level of impacts and to the extent they are likely to
       occur:

       1. An estimate of the number of households to be displaced, including the family
       characteristics (e.g., minority, ethnic, handicapped, elderly, large family, income level,
       and owner/tenant status). However, where there are very few displacees, information on
       race, ethnicity and income levels should not be included in the EIS to protect the privacy
       of those affected.
       2. A discussion comparing available (decent, safe, and sanitary) housing in the area with
       the housing needs of the displacees. The comparison should include (1) price ranges, (2)
       sizes (number of bedrooms), and (3) occupancy status (owner/tenant).
       3. A discussion of any affected neighborhoods, public facilities, non-profit organizations,

                                                15                       Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       and families having special composition (e.g., ethnic, minority, elderly, handicapped, or
       other factors) which may require special relocation considerations and the measures
       proposed to resolve these relocation concerns.
       4. A discussion of the measures to be taken where the existing housing inventory is
       insufficient, does not meet relocation standards, or is not within the financial capability
       of the displacees. A commitment to last resort housing should be included when
       sufficient comparable replacement housing may not be available.
       5. An estimate of the numbers, descriptions, types of occupancy (owner/tenant), and sizes
       (number of employees) of businesses and farms to be displaced. Additionally, the
       discussion should identify (1) sites available in the area to which the affected businesses
       may relocate, (2) likelihood of such relocation, and (3) potential impacts on individual
       businesses and farms caused by displacement or proximity of the proposed highway if not
       displaced.
       6. A discussion of the results of contacts, if any, with local governments, organizations,
       groups, and individuals regarding residential and business relocation impacts, including
       any measures or coordination needed to reduce general and/or specific impacts. These
       contacts are encouraged for projects with large numbers of relocatees or complex
       relocation requirements. Specific financial and incentive programs or opportunities
       (beyond those provided by the Uniform Relocation Act) to residential and business
       relocatees to minimize impacts may be identified, if available through other agencies or
       organizations.
       7. A statement that (1) the acquisition and relocation program will be conducted in
       accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition
       Policies Act of 1970, as amended, and (2) relocation resources are available to all
       residential and business relocatees without discrimination.

       E. JOINT DEVELOPMENT                                   Required for this project? Y or N

       TA Guidance:
       Where appropriate, the draft EIS should identify and discuss those joint development
       measures which will preserve or enhance an affected community's social, economic,
       environmental, and visual values. This discussion may be presented separately or
       combined with the land use and/or social impacts presentations. The benefits to be
       derived, those who will benefit (communities, social groups, etc.), and the entities
       responsible for maintaining the measures should be identified.

       F. PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE FACILITIES Required for this project? Y or N
             1. Describes any measures to avoid or reduce adverse impacts to the facilities.
             2. Discusses where new facilities are part of the project, basis for providing such
             facilities.

       TA Guidance:
       Where current pedestrian or bicycle facilities or indications of use are identified, the
       draft EIS should discuss the current and anticipated use of the facilities, the potential
       impacts of the affected alternatives, and proposed measures, if any, to avoid or reduce
       adverse impacts to the facility(ies) and its users. Where new facilities are proposed as a
       part of the proposed highway project, the EIS should include sufficient information to

                                               16                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       explain the basis for providing the facilities (e.g., proposed bicycle facility is a link in the
       local plan or sidewalks will reduce project access impact to the community).

       G. AIR QUALITY IMPACTS                                 Required for this project? Y or N
             1. Air quality conformity (for projects in areas that are in non-attainment for one
             or more of the transportation related pollutants)
                    a. States that the project is included in a conforming regional
                    transportation plan (RTP) and TIP and that there have been no substantial
                    changes in the design concept and scope as used in the TIP.
                    b. Contains a statement that includes a specific reference to the particular
                    RTP and TIP conformity finding, and dates of the MPO and FHWA
                    conformity determinations.
                    c. States that the conformity determination is based on the latest planning
                    assumptions.
                    d. Summarizes results of hot spot analysis.
                    e. Demonstrates that the project does not cause or contribute to any new
                    localized CO or PM-10 violations or increase the frequency or severity of
                    any existing CO or PM-10 nonattainment and maintenance areas.
                    f. States that the project complies with PM-10 control measures, as
                    applicable, in the PM-10 air quality plan.
                    g. States that the "hot-spot" analysis assumptions are consistent with those
                    in the regional emissions analysis for those inputs which are required for
                    both analyses.
             2. Discusses possible mitigation to avoid exceeding the federal standard.

       H. NOISE IMPACTS                                     Required for this project? Y or N
            1. Identifies land use categories and sensitive noise receptors.
            2. Uses A-weighted decibels (dbA), expressed as an equivalent steady-state sound
            level, Leq(h), to compare existing with predicted noise levels.
            3. Describes noise abatement measures such as range of wall heights, decibel
            reductions.
            4. Describes what are considered reasonable and feasible abatement measures
            that would likely be incorporated into the project including wall lengths, and
            associated costs.

       R.C.:
       -- Traffic noise impacts occur and consideration of noise abatement measures is required
       when the predicted traffic noise levels approach or exceed and/or substantial increase.
       Uses FHWA Noise Abatement Criteria (NAC) and includes the 23 CFR 772 reference.
       -- States that a final decision on the installation of abatement measure(s) will be made
       upon completion of the project design and the public involvement process. Explains
       factors that will be used later in determining whether to abate noise in a given location.

       TA Guidance (also use Highway Traffic Noise Analysis and Abatement Policy and
       Guidance, issued in June 1995, and FHWA approved Caltrans Noise Protocol):
       The draft EIS should contain a summary of the noise analysis including the following for
       each alternative under detailed study:

                                                  17                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       1. A brief description of noise sensitive areas (residences, businesses, schools, parks,
       etc.), including information on the number and types of activities which may be affected.
       This should include developed lands and undeveloped lands for which development is
       planned, designed, and programmed.
       2. The extent of the impact (in decibels) at each sensitive area. This includes a
       comparison of the predicted noise levels with both the FHWA noise abatement criteria
       and the existing noise levels. (Traffic noise impacts occur when the predicted traffic
       noise levels approach or exceed the noise abatement criteria or when they substantially
       exceed the existing noise levels). Where there is a substantial increase in noise levels, the
       HA should identify the criterion used for defining "substantial increase." Use of a table
       for this comparison is recommended for clarity.
       3. Noise abatement measures which have been considered for each impacted area and
       those measures that are reasonable and feasible and that would "likely" be incorporated
       into the proposed project. Estimated costs, decibel reductions and height and length of
       barriers should be shown for all abatement measures.
       4. Where it is desirable to qualify the term "likely," the following statement or similar
       wording would be appropriate. "Based on the studies completed to date, the State
       intends to install noise abatement measures in the form of a barrier at (location(s)).
       These preliminary indications of likely abatement measures are based upon preliminary
       design for a barrier of _______ high and ______ long and a cost of $______ that will
       reduce the noise level by ______ dBA for ________ residences (businesses, schools,
       parks, etc.). (Where there is more than one barrier, provide information for each one.) If
       during final design these conditions substantially change, the abatement measures might
       not be provided. A final decision on the installation of abatement measure(s) will be
       made upon completion of the project design and the public involvement process."
       5. Noise impacts for which no prudent solution is reasonably available and the reasons
       why.

       I. WATERWAYS and HYDROLOGIC                             Required for this project? Y or N
               SYSTEMS
       Discusses impacts on the resources identified in the Affected Environment Section.
       Include impacts caused by indirect effects of the project, such as induced growth.
       Consider:
              1. Water body modification.
                     a. Stream location and meander patterns (incudes stream relocations).
                     b. Quantities and flow rate, including possible effects of accreation and
                     erosion (including channel deepening).
                     c. Effects on stream uses (including navigation).
                     d. Effects on stream and surface drainage (including impoundments).
                     e. Effects on resources subject to Section 10 and Section 404 permits for
                     actions that would result in discharges to navigable waters and waters of
                     the United States and Section 9 (U.S. Coast Guard Bridge) permits. See
                     discussion under Wetlands.

       TA Guidance (Also see guidance under the Water Quality and Wetland sections):
       PERMITS
       If a facility such as a safety rest area is proposed and it will have a point source

                                                18                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       discharge, a Section 402 permit will be required for point source discharge (40 CFR
       122). The draft EIS should discuss potential adverse impacts resulting from such
       proposed facilities and identify proposed mitigation measures. The need for a Section
       402 permit and Section 401 water quality certification should be identified in the draft
       EIS.

       For proposed actions requiring a Section 404 or Section 10 (Corps of Engineers) permit,
       the draft EIS should identify by alternative the general location of each dredge or fill
       activity, discuss the potential adverse impacts, identify proposed mitigation measures (if
       not addressed elsewhere in the draft EIS), and include evidence of coordination with the
       Corps of Engineers and appropriate Federal, State and local resource agencies, and
       State and local water quality agencies.

       For proposed actions requiring Section 9 (U.S. Coast Guard bridge) permits, the draft
       EIS should identify by alternative the location of the permit activity, potential impacts to
       navigation and the environment (if not addressed elsewhere in the document), proposed
       mitigation measures and evidence coordination with the U.S. Coast Guard.

       WATER QUALITY IMPACTS                              Required for this project? Y or N
           1. Discusses roadway runoff and/or nonpoint source pollution impacting water
           resources.
                   a. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permit required?
           2. Coordinates with EPA, as appropriate.
           3. Discusses water quality analysis and impacts.
           4. Contains evidence of consultation with the State and/or local agency
           responsible for water quality. See NEPA/404 Questions and Answers.
           5. If project has impacts on any sole source aquifer(s), document must contain
           evidence of coordination with the EPA
           6. Discusses any impacts on wellhead protection area(s).
           7. Identifies Section 402 or Section 404 permit requirements.

       TA Guidance:
       The draft EIS should identify the potential impacts of each alternative and proposed
       mitigation measures. Where an area designated as principal or sole-source aquifer
       under Section 1424(e) of the Safe Drinking Water Act may be impacted by a proposed
       project, early coordination with EPA will assist in identifying potential impacts. The
       EPA will furnish information on whether any of the alternatives affect the aquifer. This
       coordination should also identify any potential impacts to the critical aquifer protection
       area (CAPA), if designated, within affected sole-source aquifers. If none of the
       alternatives affect the aquifer, the requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act are
       satisfied. If an alternative is selected which affects the aquifer, a design must be
       developed to assure, to the satisfaction of EPA, that it will not contaminate the aquifer
       (40 CFR 149). The draft EIS should document coordination with EPA and identify its
       position on the impacts of the various alternatives.

       Wellhead protection areas were authorized by the 1986 Amendments to the Safe Drinking
       Water Act. Each State will develop State wellhead protection plans with final approval

                                                19                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       by EPA. When a proposed project encroaches on a wellhead protection area, the draft
       EIS should identify the area, the potential impact of each alternative and proposed
       mitigation measures. Coordination with the State agency responsible for the protection
       plan will aid in identifying the areas, impacts and mitigation.

       J. WETLANDS/WATERS OF THE U.S.                          Required for this project? Y or N
              IMPACTS (23 CFR Part 777, page 26 of TA, NEPA-404 MOU Guidance
              Papers)
       The text needs to indicate whether waters of the U.S. are in the project area, and if so,
       whether any of the alternatives affect waters of the U.S.
              1. If there are no waters of the U.S. in the project area
                      a. States that there are no waters of the U.S. in the project area;
                      b. Refers to the location of any Corps letters in the draft EIS.

              2. If there are waters of the U.S. in the project area but are not affected by any of
              the project alternatives
                      a. Includes a copy of a Corps letter concurring that, based on the
                      information provided, none of the project alternatives under consideration
                      affect waters of the U.S. and/or that a section 404 will not be required for
                      the project.
                      b. Provides the basis for and concludes none of the project alternatives
                      under consideration affect waters of the U.S.;
                      c. States a section 404 permit will not be required for the project; and
                      d. Refers to the draft EIS locations of the Corps letter and the exhibit(s)
                      depicting the waters of the U.S., special aquatic sites, and associated
                      sensitive species habitat in the project area.

              3. If all project alternative involvements with waters of the U.S. are nationwide
              404 permit situations
                       a. Resource description.
                              (1) Describes the location, extent, and quality of waters of the U.S.
                              and special aquatic sites in the project area;
                              (2) Provides the basis for and concludes that all project alternative
                              involvements with waters of the U.S. are nationwide 404 permit
                              situations.
                              (3) Includes a copy of a Corps letter or letters concurring, based on
                              the information provided, that all project alternative involvements
                              with waters of the U.S. are likely to meet the conditions for
                              nationwide 404 permits and also appear to require a nationwide
                              permit.

              4. If any of the alternatives affect or could affect special aquatic sites, includes
              drawings clearly showing each involved special aquatic site relative to the
              alternative(s).
                      a. Resource Description
                              (1) Refers to exhibit(s) depicting the waters of the U.S., special
                              aquatic sites, and associated sensitive species habitat; and

                                                20                         Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

                            (2) Includes a description of the functions and values of the
                            affected waters of the U.S. and special aquatic sites, identifying
                            which functions are performed and the value of those functions
                            (included in the Affected Environment Section).
                            (3) In conjunction with the associated EIS evaluations of upland
                            wildlife habitat and vegetative communities, the exhibits of waters
                            of the U.S., special aquatic sites, and associated sensitive species
                            habitat, and the text, use mapping units of a recognized
                            classification system or systems, and cite the source(s);
                      b. Impact evaluation.
                            (1) Identifies the location(s) and extent of modifications to waters
                            of the U.S. and special aquatic sites for each alternative under
                            consideration;
                            (2) Includes an assessment of the project impacts, including the
                            type of impact (e.g., habitat removal, fragmentation, introduction
                            of exotic species), its magnitude, and how the project will affect
                            the continued performance of the identified functions;
                            (3) If a wetland assessment methodology was utilized as part of
                            the wetland impact evaluation, it is identified;
                      c. Compensatory mitigation.
                      Summarizes the general mitigation plan concepts developed to date:
                            (a) habitat types and approximate hectares of impact
                            (b) plant communities and habitat to be replaced
                            (c) functions and values to be enhanced or created by the
                            mitigation
                            (d) plant species to be used
                            (e) cost estimate
                            (f) mitigation success criteria
                            (g) monitoring criteria for evaluation of the mitigation

              5. If any of the project alternative involvements with waters of the U.S. are
              individual 404 permit situations
                      a. Resource description.
                              (1) Describes the location, extent, and quality of waters of the U.S.
                              and special aquatic sites in the project area;
                              (2) Refers to a copy of a Corps letter included in the EIS which
                              verifies the delineations of the waters of the U.S. and the special
                              aquatic sites.
                              (3) If any of the alternatives affect or could affect special aquatic
                              sites, includes a delineation of each involved special aquatic site at
                              a 1:1200 scale relative to the alternative(s).
                              (4) Refers to exhibit(s) depicting the waters of the U.S., special
                              aquatic sites, and associated sensitive species habitat; and
                              (5) Includes a description of the functions and values of the
                              affected waters of the U.S. and special aquatic sites, identifying
                              which functions are performed and the value of those functions.
                              (6) In conjunction with the associated EIS evaluations of upland

                                                21                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

                              wildlife habitat and vegetative communities, the text and the
                              exhibits of waters of the U.S., special aquatic sites, and associated
                              sensitive species habitat utilize mapping units of a recognized
                              classification system or systems, and cite the source(s);
                              (7) The draft EIS includes descriptive information for each exhibit
                              mapping unit that provides:
                                       (a) the distribution of the unit within the study area,
                                       (b) an estimate of the total number of hectares present,
                                       (c) the dominant plant species, and
                                       (d) the relative sensitivity of the vegetation.
                              (8) All plant and animal taxa encountered during site visits are
                              listed by vegetation type in an appendix to the draft EIS, and this
                              listing is referred to in the draft EIS text.
                      b. Impact evaluation.
                              (1) Identifies the location(s) and extent of modifications to waters
                              of the U.S. and special aquatic sites for each alternative under
                              consideration;
                              (2) Includes an assessment of the project impacts, including the
                              type of impact (e.g., habitat removal, fragmentation, introduction
                              of exotic species), its magnitude, and how the project will affect
                              the continued performance of the identified functions;
                              (3) Impacts are evaluated in a regional and, if appropriate, a local
                              context; and
                              (4) If a wetland assessment methodology was utilized as part of
                              the wetland impact evaluation, it is identified.
                      c. Compensatory mitigation.
                              (1) Summarizes the pertinent factors from the feasibility study of
                              candidate mitigation sites which demonstrate that conditions at
                              mitigation sites under consideration would make a successful
                              mitigation effort likely--particularly groundwater, hazardous
                              wastes, historic/archaeological resources, and easements/land
                              ownership (see NEPA-404 MOU Guidance Papers page 27 for the
                              feasibility study factors); and
                              (2) Summarizes the description of the general mitigation plan
                              concepts developed to date, including:
                                       (a) habitat types and approximate hectares of impact;
                                       (b) plant communities and habitat to be replaced;
                                       (c) functions and values to be enhanced or created by the
                                       mitigation;
                                       (d) plant species to be used;
                                       (e) cost estimate;
                                       (f) mitigation success criteria;
                                       (g) monitoring criteria for evaluation of the mitigation.
                      d. A draft 404 Alternatives Analysis is contained in a separate section of
                      the draft EIS (e.g., an EIS Appendix) and is referred to in the draft EIS 404
                       discussion. (The content of a draft 404 Alternatives Analysis is outlined in
                      the NEPA-404 MOU Guidance Papers, pp 21- 23)

                                               22                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

                      e. Agency Concurrence.
                            (1) Includes written documentation from the Corps, EPA, FWS,
                            and (when marine or anadromous fish resources are involved)
                            NMFS stating their agreement on:
                                      the project purpose and need,
                                      the project alternatives to be evaluated in draft EIS,
                                      the preliminary preferred alternative (if known), and
                                      any involvement as a cooperating agency.
                            (2) Refers to this documentation in the discussion of waters of the
                            U.S./Section 404

       TA Guidance:
       When an alternative will impact wetlands [the Environmental Consequences section of
       the] draft EIS should (1) describe the impacts to the wetlands [area, quality, and
       functions], (2) evaluate alternatives which would avoid these wetlands, and (3) identify
       practicable measures to minimize harm to the wetlands. Exhibits showing wetlands in
       the project impact area in relation to the alternatives, should be provided. [If the exhibits
       appear in the Affected Environment section, they should be referenced here.]

       In evaluating the impact of the proposed project on wetlands, the following two items
       should be addressed: (1) the importance of the impacted wetland(s) and (2) the severity
       of this impact. Merely listing the number of acres taken by the various alternatives of a
       highway proposal does not provide sufficient information upon which to determine the
       degree of impact on the wetland ecosystem. The wetlands analysis should be sufficiently
       detailed to provide an understanding of these two elements.

       In determining the wetland impact, the analysis should show the project's effects on the
       stability and quality of the wetland(s). This analysis should consider the short- and
       long-term effects on the wetlands and the importance of any loss such as: (1) flood
       control capacity, (2) shore line anchorage potential, (3) water pollution abatement
       capacity, and (4) fish and wildlife habitat value. Knowing the importance of the wetlands
       involved and the degree of the impact, the SHA and FHWA will be in a better position to
       determine the mitigation efforts necessary to minimize harm to these wetlands.
       Mitigation measures which should be considered include preservation and improvement
       of existing wetlands and creation of new wetlands (consistent with 23 CFR 777).

       K. WILDLIFE IMPACTS                                 Required for this project? Y or N
            1. Discusses impacts to fish and wildlife including any sensitive species resulting
            from the loss of degradation or modification of aquatic or terrestrial habitat.
            2. Documents coordination with state, local agencies and FWS under the Fish and
            Wildlife Coordination Act of 1958.

       TA Guidance:
       Impacts to fish and wildlife resulting from the loss degradation, or modification of
       aquatic or terrestrial habitat should also be discussed. The results of coordination with
       appropriate Federal, State and local agencies should be documented in the draft EIS
       (e.g., coordination with FWS under the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 1958).

                                                23                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)


       L. FLOODPLAIN IMPACTS                                Required for this project? Y or N
            ( 23 CFR 650 Subpart A)
            1. Identifies and evaluates longitudinal/transverse encroachments of project
            alternatives on flood plains.
            2. Includes summary of the "Location Hydraulic Study".
            3. Reflects coordination with the Federal Emergency Management Agency
            (FEMA) and appropriate State and local government agencies for each floodway
            encroachment.
            4. Includes a discussion of the consistency of the project with the Regulatory
            floodway.
            5. Evaluates and discusses practicable alternatives if it has been determined that
            there is a significant encroachment.

       TA Guidance:
       National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) maps or, if NFIP maps are not available,
       information developed by the highway agency should be used to determine whether an
       alternative will encroach on the base (100-year) floodplain. The location hydraulic
       studies required by 23 CFR 650, Subpart A, must include a discussion of the following
       items commensurate with the level of risk or environmental impact, for each alternative
       which encroaches on base floodplains or would support base floodplain development:

       (a) The flooding risks;
       (b) The impacts on natural and beneficial floodplain values;
       (c) The support of probable incompatible floodplain development (i.e., any development
       that is not consistent with a community's floodplain development plan);
       (d) The measures to minimize floodplain impacts; and
       (e) The measures to restore and preserve the natural and beneficial floodplain values.

       The draft EIS should briefly summarize the results of the location hydraulic studies. The
       summary should identify the number of encroachments and any support of incompatible
       floodplain developments and their potential impacts. Where an encroachment or support
       of incompatible floodplain development results in substantial impacts, the draft EIS
       should provide more detailed information on the location, impacts and appropriate
       mitigation measures. In addition, if any alternative (l) results in a floodplain
       encroachment or supports incompatible floodplain development having significant
       impacts, or (2) requires a commitment to a particular structure size or type, the draft EIS
       needs to include an evaluation and discussion of practicable alternatives to the structure
       or to the significant encroachment. The draft EIS should include exhibits which display
       the alternatives, the base floodplains and, where applicable, the regulatory floodways.

       For each alternative encroaching on a designated or proposed regulatory floodway, the
       draft EIS should provide a preliminary indication of whether the encroachment would be
       consistent with or require a revision to the regulatory floodway. Engineering and
       environmental analyses should be undertaken, commensurate with the level of
       encroachment, to permit the consistency evaluation and identify impacts. Coordination
       with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and appropriate State and

                                               24                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       local government agencies should be undertaken for each floodway encroachment.

       M. WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS                           Required for this project? Y or N
            1. Indicates that the "National Inventory of Wild and Scenic Rivers" has been
            reviewed.
            2. Summarizes the coordination between the highway agency and the National
            Park Service, if appropriate.

       TA Guidance:
       If the proposed action could have foreseeable adverse effects on a river on the National
       Wild and Scenic Rivers System or a river under study for designation to the National
       Wild and Scenic Rivers System, the draft EIS should identify early coordination
       undertaken with the agency responsible for managing the listed or study river (i.e.,
       National Park Service (NPS), Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), Bureau of Land
       Management (BLM), or Forest Service (FS)). For each alternative under consideration,
       the EIS should identify the potential adverse effects on the natural, cultural, and
       recreational values of the listed or study river. Adverse effects include alteration of the
       free-flowing nature of the river, alteration of the setting or deterioration of water quality.
        If it is determined that any of the alternatives could foreclose options to designate a
       study river under the Act, or adversely affect those qualities of a listed river for which it
       was designated, to the fullest extent possible, the draft EIS needs to reflect consultation
       with the managing agency on avoiding or mitigating the impacts (23 CFR 771.123(c)).
       Publicly owned waters of designated wild and scenic rivers are protected by Section 4(f).
        Additionally, public lands adjacent to a Wild and Scenic River may be subject to Section
       4(f) protection. An examination of any adopted or proposed management plan for a
       listed river should be helpful in making the determination on applicability of Section 4(f).
        For each alternative that takes such land, coordination with the agency responsible for
       managing the river (either NPS, FWS, BLM, or FS) will provide information on the
       management plan, specific affected land uses, and any necessary Section 4(f)
       coordination.

       N. COASTAL BARRIERS                                 Required for this project? Y or N
       Note: There are no designated coastal barriers in Region 9 as of February 1995.

       O. COASTAL ZONE IMPACTS                             Required for this project? Y or N
            1. Indicates whether the proposed project is within, or is likely to affect land or
            water uses within the area covered by a State Coastal Zone Management Program
            (CZMP).
            2. Documents coordination between the highway agency and the State CZM
            agency.

       TA Guidance:
       Where the proposed action is within, or is likely to affect land or water uses within the
       area covered by a State Coastal Zone Management Program (CZMP) approved by the
       Department of Commerce, the draft EIS should briefly describe the portion of the affected
       CZMP plan, identify the potential impacts, and include evidence of coordination with the
       State Coastal Zone Management agency or appropriate local agency.

                                                 25                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)


       P. THREATENED OR ENDANGERED                         Required for this project? Y or N
             SPECIES IMPACTS
            1. Documents coordination with FWS and/or NMFS.
            2. Identifies whether any threatened or endangered species and/or designated or
            proposed critical habitat may be impacted in the project area; includes exhibits
            depicting habitat and avoidance alternatives.
            3. Discusses biological assessment and documented FWS coordination of Section
            7 consultation.

       R.C.:
       -- Ensures that only the FHWA or the State DOT made the written request to the FWS for
       listed or proposed species and/or critical habitat in the project area. Include the FWS
       written response in the appendix and refer to it in both the "affected" and "consequences"
       sections of the endangered species discussion.

       TA Guidance:
       When a proposed species or a proposed critical habitat may be present in the proposed
       project area, an evaluation or, if appropriate, a biological assessment is made on the
       potential impacts to identify whether any such species or critical habitat are likely to be
       adversely affected by the project. Informal consultation with FWS and/or NMFS should
       be undertaken during the evaluation. The draft EIS should include exhibits showing the
       location of the species or habitat, summarize the evaluation and potential impacts,
       identify proposed mitigation measures, and evidence coordination with FWS and/or
       NMFS. If the project is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of any proposed
       species or result in the destruction or adverse modification of proposed critical habitat,
       the HA in consultation with the FHWA must confer with FWS and/or NMFS to attempt to
       resolve potential conflicts by avoiding, minimizing, or reducing the project impacts (50
       CFR 402.10(a)).

       When a listed species or a designated critical habitat may be present in the proposed
       project area, a biological assessment must be prepared to identify any such species or
       habitat which are likely to be adversely affected by the proposed project (50 CFR
       402.12). Informal consultation should be undertaken or, if desirable, a conference held
       with FWS and/or NMFS during preparation of the biological assessment. The draft EIS
       should summarize the following data from the biological assessment:

       (a) The species distribution, habitat needs, and other biological requirements;
       (b) The affected areas of the proposed project;
       (c) Possible impacts to the species including opinions of recognized experts on the
       species at issue;
       (d) Measures to avoid or minimize adverse impacts; and
       (e) Results of consultation with FWS and/or NMFS.

       Q. HISTORIC AND ARCHEOLOGICAL                       Required for this project? Y or N
             PRESERVATION
             1. Refers to the Historic Property Survey Report (HPSR) as necessary.

                                                26                       Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

              2. Describes in qualitative and quantitative detail the potential effects of each
              alternative on each NRHP property.
              3. Discusses and documents all Section 106 coordination efforts with the SHPO
              regarding eligibility and effects under each alternative. Refers to a copy of the
              SHPO letter which is included in the appendix.

       R.C.:
       -- Indicates whether archaeological sites warrant preservation in place or are only
       significant for their data. If preservation is warranted, then Section 4(f) applies.

       TA Guidance:
       The draft EIS discussion should briefly summarize the methodologies used in identifying
       historic and archeological resources [discussed in Affected Environment]. The draft EIS
       should summarize the impacts of each alternative on and proposed mitigation measures
       for each resource. The document should evidence coordination with the SHPO on the
       significance of newly identified historic and archeological resources, the eligibility of
       historic resources for the National Register, and the effects of each alternative on both
       listed and eligible historic resources. Where the draft EIS discusses eligibility for the
       National Register of archeological resources, the coordination with the SHPO on
       eligibility and effect should address both historic and archeological resources.
       The draft EIS can serve as a vehicle for affording the Advisory Council on Historic
       Preservation (ACHP) an opportunity to comment pursuant to Section 106 requirements if
       the document contains the necessary information required by 36 CFR 800.8. The draft
       EIS transmittal letter to the ACHP should specifically request its comments pursuant to
       36 CFR 800.6.

       R. HAZARDOUS WASTE SITES                             Required for this project? Y or N
            1. Includes a map identifying the location of the site(s) in relation to the
            alternatives.
            2. Discusses results of coordination with resource agency, state and local agencies
            including description of clean-up plans.
            3. Includes information on the number and types of sites/structures, extent of
            contamination, and alternative treatment/disposal measures with relative costs.
            4. Includes justification for not avoiding waste sites, if warranted.
            5. Includes statement on how hazardous wastes will be handled if encountered
            during construction activities.

       TA Guidance:
       If known or potential waste sites are identified, the locations should be clearly marked on
       a map showing their relationship to the alternatives under consideration. If a known or
       potential hazardous waste site is affected by an alternative, information about the site,
       the potential involvement, impacts and public health concerns of the affected
       alternative(s), and the proposed mitigation measures to eliminate or minimize impacts or
       public health concerns should be discussed in the draft EIS.

       S. VISUAL IMPACTS                                   Required for this project? Y or N
             1. Discusses impacts to potential viewers of and from the project.

                                                27                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

              2. Uses a federally accepted visual assessment methodology.

       TA Guidance:
       The draft EIS should state whether the project alternatives have a potential for visual
       quality impacts. When this potential exists, the draft EIS should identify the impacts to
       the existing visual resource, the relationship of the impacts to potential viewers of and
       from the project, as well as measures to avoid, minimize, or reduce the adverse impacts.
       When there is potential for visual quality impacts, the draft EIS should explain the
       consideration given to design quality, art, and architecture in the project planning.
       These values may be particularly important for facilities located in visually sensitive
       urban or rural settings. When a proposed project will include features associated with
       design quality, art or architecture, the draft EIS should be circulated to officially
       designated State and local arts councils and, as appropriate, other organizations with an
       interest in design, art, and architecture.

       T. ENERGY                                           Required for this project? Y or N
            1. Discusses cost/benefit analysis of reasonable alternatives for major projects

       TA Guidance:
       Except for large scale projects, a detailed energy analysis including computations of
       BTU requirements, etc., is not needed. For most projects, the draft EIS should discuss in
       general terms the construction and operational energy requirements and conservation
       potential of various alternatives under consideration. The discussion should be
       reasonable and supportable. It might recognize that the energy requirements of various
       construction alternatives are similar and are generally greater than the energy
       requirements of the no-build alternative. Additionally, the discussion could point out that
       the post-construction, operational energy requirements of the facility should be less with
       the build alternative as opposed to the no-build alternative. In such a situation, one
       might conclude that the savings in operational energy requirements would more than
       offset construction energy requirements and thus, in the long term, result in a net savings
       in energy usage.

       For large-scale projects with potentially substantial energy impacts, the draft EIS should
       discuss the major direct and/or indirect energy impacts and conservation potential of
       each alternative. Direct energy impacts refer to the energy consumed by vehicles using
       the facility. Indirect impacts include construction energy and such items as the effects of
       any changes in automobile usage. The alternative's relationship and consistency with a
       State and/or regional energy plan, if one exists, should also be indicated.

       U. CONSTRUCTION IMPACTS (pages 35-36 of TA)
            1. Discusses related adverse impacts on safety, air, noise, water, traffic
            congestion, access to businesses, schools, community facilities and potential
            detours for each alternative.
            2. Discusses appropriate mitigation measures.
            3. Includes impacts of borrow or disposal of waste material and appropriate
            mitigation.


                                               28                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       TA Guidance:
       The draft EIS should discuss the potential adverse impacts (particularly air, noise, water,
       traffic congestion, detours, safety, visual, etc.) associated with construction of each
       alternative and identify appropriate mitigation measures. Also, where the impacts of
       obtaining borrow or disposal of waste material are important issues, they should be
       discussed in the draft EIS along with any proposed measures to minimize these impacts.

VIII. THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN LOCAL SHORT-TERM USES OF MAN'S
ENVIRONMENT AND THE MAINTENANCE AND ENHANCEMENT OF LONG-
TERM PRODUCTIVITY (page 36 of TA)

TA Guidance:
The EIS should discuss in general terms the proposed action's relationship of local short-term
impacts and use of resources, and the maintenance and enhancement of long-term productivity.
This general discussion might recognize that the build alternatives would have similar impacts.
The discussion should point out that transportation improvements are based on State and/or
local comprehensive planning which consider(s) the need for present and future traffic
requirements within the context of present and future land use development. In such a situation,
one might then conclude that the local short-term impacts and use of resources by the proposed
action is consistent with the maintenance and enhancement of long-term productivity for the
local area, State, etc.

IX. ANY IRREVERSIBLE AND IRRETRIEVABLE COMMITMENTS OF
RESOURCES WHICH WOULD BE INVOLVED IN THE PROPOSED ACTION
(pp. 36-37 of TA)

TA Guidance:
The EIS should discuss in general terms the proposed action's irreversible and irretrievable
commitment of resources. This general discussion might recognize that the build alternatives
would require a similar commitment of natural, physical, human, and fiscal resources. An
example of such discussion would be as follows:

"Implementation of the proposed action involves a commitment of a range of natural, physical,
human, and fiscal resources. Land used in the construction of the proposed facility is considered
an irreversible commitment during the time period that the land is used for a highway facility.
However, if a greater need arises for use of the land or if the highway facility is no longer
needed, the land can be converted to another use. At present, there is no reason to believe such
a conversion will ever be necessary or desirable.

Considerable amounts of fossil fuels, labor, and highway construction materials such as cement,
aggregate, and bituminous material are expended. Additionally, large amounts of labor and
natural resources are used in the fabrication and preparation of construction materials. These
materials are generally not retrievable. However, they are not in short supply and their use will
not have an adverse effect upon continued availability of these resources. Any construction will
also require a substantial one-time expenditure of both State and Federal funds which are not
retrievable.


                                               29                       Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

The commitment of these resources is based on the concept that residents in the immediate area,
State, and region will benefit by the improved quality of the transportation system. These
benefits will consist of improved accessibility and safety, savings in time, and greater availability
of quality services which are anticipated to outweigh the commitment of these resources."

X. LIST OF PREPARERS
      A. Summarizes the credentials of all preparers.

TA Guidance:
This section should include lists of:
       1. State (and local agency) personnel, including consultants, who were primarily
       responsible for preparing the EIS or performing environmental studies, and a brief
       summary of their qualifications, including educational background and experience.
       2. The FHWA personnel primarily responsible for preparation or review of the EIS and
       their qualifications.
       3. The areas of EIS responsibility for each preparer.

XI. LIST OF AGENCIES, ORGANIZATIONS, AND PERSONS TO WHOM COPIES
ARE SENT
      R.C.:
      Check for correct mailing addresses and phone numbers for Federal/State agencies.
      Ensure FHWA and the state DOT are not on the mailing list.

TA Guidance:
List all entities from which comments are being requested (40 CFR 1502.10).

XII. COMMENTS AND COORDINATION
      A. Discusses scoping meetings and other meetings.
      B. Includes copies of pertinent correspondence with other agencies and the public.

       R.C.:
       -- Summarizes key issues from the public and government.
       -- References and includes copy of Notice of Intent and letters inviting cooperating
       agency status.
       -- Removes FHWA from the mailing list and any letters from FHWA and the State DOT.

TA Guidance:
1. The draft EIS should contain copies of pertinent correspondence with each cooperating
agency, other agencies and the public and summarize: 1) the early coordination process,
including scoping; 2) the meetings with community groups (including minority and non-minority
interests) and individuals; and 3) the key issues and pertinent information received from the
public and government agencies through these efforts.

XII. INDEX
       R.C.:
       -- Includes accurate page numbers.


                                                 30                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

TA Guidance:
The index should include important subjects and areas of major impacts so that a reviewer need
not read the entire EIS to obtain information on a specific subject or impact.

XIV. APPENDICES
      A. Consists of various material prepared specifically for this EIS to substantiate
      information in the EIS. Lengthy technical discussions are part of a technical report and
      are made available for review at specified locations.

       R.C.:
       -- Includes plan and profile drawings or aerial photographs.

TA Guidance:
The EIS should briefly explain or summarize methodologies and results of technical analyses
and research. Lengthy technical discussions should be contained in a technical report. Material
prepared as appendices to the EIS should:
       1. consist of material prepared specifically for the EIS;
       2. consist of material which substantiates an analysis fundamental to the EIS;
       3. be analytic and relevant to the decision to be made; and
       4. be circulated with the EIS within FHWA, to EPA (Region), and to cooperating
       agencies and be readily available on request by other parties. Other reports and studies
       referred to in the EIS should be readily available for review or for copying at a
       convenient location.

XV. DRAFT SECTION 4(F) EVALUATION                               Required for this project? Y or N
(See also FHWA Section 4(f) Policy Paper)
        A. Cites the Section 4(f) Regulation and explains the requirements of 4(f).
        B. Identifies and depicts on map, all 4(f) or 6(f) resources in project corridor to show
        relationship of resource to project.
        C. Discusses actual use on each 4(f) resource for each alternative. Includes discussion on
        the types of activities affected.
        D. Discusses avoidance alternative(s) which avoid each and all 4(f) properties.
        E. Discusses any proximity impacts on each 4(f) resource not actually used under each
        alternative.
                1. Includes detailed discussion with maps and photographs of any proximity
                impacts such as noise, visual and access.
                2. Ensures that proper noise abatement criteria are applied depending on types of
                activities impacted.
        F. If there are no feasible and prudent avoidance alternatives, the discussion is clear.
        G. Discusses all possible mitigation measures to minimize harm.
        H. Discusses results of coordination efforts with jurisdictional parties over the 4(f)
        properties and with National Park Service (NPS) for 6(f) properties.

       R.C.:
       -- Includes citation: "submitted pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(c) and 49 U.S.C. 303" on
       the title page or in the introductory paragraph.
       -- Need to clearly indicate whether a property is a 4(f) resource or it is not. "Potential"

                                                31                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       4(f) resources has no meaning.
       -- Any planned parks and recreation trails are subject to Section 4(f) evaluation and must
       be identified.
       -- For potential constructive use issues, ensure that regulations at 23 CFR 771.135(p) are
       complied with and any compliance with Section 4(f) based on joint planning must be
       carefully documented.

TA Guidance:
A Section 4(f) evaluation must be prepared for each location within a proposed project before
the use of Section 4(f) land is approved (23 CFR 771.135(a)). For projects processed with an
EIS or an EA/FONSI, the individual Section 4(f) evaluation should be included as a separate
section of the document, and for projects processed as categorical exclusions, as a separate
Section 4(f) evaluation document. Pertinent information from various sections of the EIS or
EA/FONSI may be summarized in the Section 4(f) evaluation to reduce repetition. Where an
issue on constructive use Section 4(f) arises and FHWA decides that Section 4(f) does not apply,
the environmental document should contain sufficient analysis and information to demonstrate
that the resource(s) is not substantially impaired.

The use of Section 4(f) land may involve concurrent requirements of other Federal agencies.
Examples include consistency determinations for the use of public lands managed by the Bureau
of Land Management, compatibility determinations for the use of land in the National Wildlife
Refuge System and the National Park System, determinations of direct and adverse effects for
Wild and Scenic Rivers, and approval of land conversions under Section 6(f) of the Land and
Water Conservation Fund Act. The mitigation plan developed for the project should include
measures which would satisfy the various requirements. For example, Section 6(f) directs the
Department of the Interior (National Park Service) to assure that replacement lands of equal
value, location, and usefulness are provided as conditions to approval of land conversions.
Therefore, where a Section 6(f) land conversion is proposed for a highway project, replacement
land will be necessary. Regardless of the mitigation proposed, the draft and final Section 4(f)
evaluations should discuss the results of coordination with the public official having jurisdiction
over the Section 4(f) land and document the National Park Service's position on the Section 6(f)
land transfer, respectively.

       A. Draft Section 4(f) Evaluation
       The following format and content are suggested. The listed information should be
       included in the Section 4(f) evaluation, as applicable.

       1. Proposed Action.
       Where a separate Section 4(f) evaluation is prepared, describe the proposed project and
       explain the purpose and need for the project.

       2. Section 4(f) Property.
       Describe each Section 4(f) resource which would be used by any alternative under
       consideration. The following information should be provided:

       (a)     A detailed map or drawing of sufficient scale to identify the relationship of the
               alternatives to the Section 4(f) property.

                                                32                        Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       (b)    Size (acres or square feet) and location (maps or other exhibits such as
              photographs, sketches, etc.) of the affected Section 4(f) property.
       (c)    Ownership (city, county, State, etc.) and type of Section 4(f) property (park,
              recreation, historic, etc.).
       (d)    Function of or available activities on the property (ball playing, swimming,
              golfing, etc.).
       (e)    Description and location of all existing and planned facilities (ball diamonds,
              tennis courts, etc.).
       (f)    Access (pedestrian, vehicular) and usage (approximate number of users/visitors,
              etc.).
       (g)    Relationship to other similarly used lands in the vicinity.
       (h)    Applicable clauses affecting the ownership, such as lease, easement, covenants,
              restrictions, or conditions, including forfeiture.
       (i)    Unusual characteristics of the Section 4(f) property (flooding problems, terrain
              conditions, or other features) that either reduce or enhance the value of all or
              part of the property.

       3. Impacts on the Section 4(f) Property(ies).
       Discuss the impacts on the Section 4(f) property for each alternative (e.g., amount of land
       to be used, facilities and functions affected, noise, air pollution, visual, etc.). Where an
       alternative (or alternatives) uses land from more than one Section 4(f) property, a
       summary table would be useful in comparing the various impacts of the alternative(s).
       Impacts (such as facilities and functions affected, noise, etc.) which can be quantified
       should be quantified. Other impacts (such as visual intrusion) which cannot be
       quantified should be described.

       4. Avoidance Alternatives.
       Identify and evaluate location and design alternatives which would avoid the Section 4(f)
       property. Generally, this would include alternatives to either side of the property. Where
       an alternative would use land from more than one Section 4(f) property, the analysis
       needs to evaluate alternatives which avoid each and all properties (23 CFR 771.135(i)).
       The design alternatives should be in the immediate area of the property and consider
       minor alignment shifts, a reduced facility, retaining structures, etc. individually or in
       combination, as appropriate. Detailed discussions of alternatives in an EIS or EA need
       not be repeated in the Section 4(f) portion of the document, but should be referenced and
       summarized. However, when alternatives (avoiding Section 4(f) resources) have been
       eliminated from detailed study the discussion should also explain whether these
       alternatives are feasible and prudent and, if not, the reasons why.

       5. Measures to Minimize Harm.
       Discuss all possible measures which are available to minimize the impacts of the
       proposed action on the Section 4(f) property(ies). Detailed discussions of mitigation
       measures in the EIS or EA may be referenced and appropriately summarized, rather than
       repeated.

       6. Coordination.
       Discuss the results of preliminary coordination with the public official having

                                                33                       Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)

       jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) property and with regional (or local) offices of DOI and,
       as appropriate, the Regional Office of HUD and the Forest Supervisor of the affected
       National Forest. Generally, the coordination should include discussion of avoidance
       alternatives, impacts to the property, and measures to minimize harm. In addition, the
       coordination with the public official having jurisdiction should include, where necessary,
       a discussion of significance and primary use of the property.

       Note: The conclusion that there are no feasible and prudent alternatives is not normally
             addressed at the draft Section 4(f) evaluation stage. Such conclusion is made
             only after the draft Section 4(f) evaluation has been circulated and coordinated
             and any identified issues adequately evaluated.

XVI. GENERAL COMMENTS
      R.C.:
      -- Avoids using the term "Significant" except to describe 4(f) resources, 106 properties, or
      floodplain impacts.
      -- Satisfies State only requirements with a separate section or appendix in the document.
      -- Provides information and data to thoroughly describe each impact to support
      conclusions made.
      -- Refers to specific technical reports and summarizes contents as appropriate.
      -- Uses photographs, illustrations, and other graphics as appropriate.
      -- Includes a key for figures and tables that is easily understandable.
      -- Includes a statement that the project will conform with the American Disabilities Act
      (ADA) of 1990, as appropriate.
      -- Discusses cumulative impacts: substantial, foreseeable, induced secondary impacts for
      each alternative - in particular to air, water quality, and wetlands.
      -- Uses a table summarizing total project mitigation.
      -- Ensures that the consultants' names do not appear on the binding, cover, and title page
      of the EIS except under the List of Preparers.
      -- Checks that names of the preparers of technical reports are not in the narrative of the
      subject discussions but listed under List of Preparers.
      -- Refers to verbal communications with date, complete name and title of individuals
      involved in conversation with documentation in the project file.

COMMENTS:




______________________________________________________________________________
The State DOT ensures that this environmental document has been reviewed for completeness.



REVIEWED BY:                                                                DATE:
                      State DOT Project Manager

                                                34                       Revised September 3, 1998
FHWA California Division Checklist for Draft Environmental Documents (SS #S20319)



The FHWA Division office Project Manager (i.e., Transportation Engineer) and the EIS Review
Team (ERT) have completed their review of this environmental document.


REVIEWED BY:                                                              DATE:
                      FHWA Division Project Manager (TE)




                                               35                      Revised September 3, 1998
                                         Hal Bohner
                                            Attorney
                       115 An g elit a Av en ue · Pacifica, C A 94044
                                    phone 650-359-4257
                                 hbohner@earthlink.net




                            Sent by email to yolanda_rivas@dot.ca.gov
                                        October 20, 2012


Yolanda Rivas, Branch Chief
Division of Environmental Planning & Engineering
California Department of Transportation District 4
111 Grand Avenue
Oakland, CA 94623


       Re:     Request under California Public Records Act


Dear Ms. Rivas:


      Pursuant to the California Public Records Act please provide me copies of certain
documents which are identified below. I assume that there will be no charge for responding to
my request. If I am incorrect please advise me before incurring costs.

        My request relates to Caltrans' Draft Environmental Impact Report / Environmental
Assessment for State Route 1 / Calera Parkway / Highway 1 Widening Project San Mateo
County, California 04-SM-1 / PM 41.7/43.0 / EA 04-254600. (The DEIR) More specifically,
my request concerns Section 1.4.8.10 which is titled "School Bus Service to Elementary School
at Vallemar".

        1.      In Section 1.4.8.10 the DEIR states: "The existing bus service is well-used, but is
not over capacity. Increased service would likely provide only a marginal improvement, and would
likely be very expensive to operate."

a.      I request any and all documents which provide the support or the basis for that statement or
any part of that statement.

b.     I request any and all documents which concern or relate to or define how much improvement
is meant by "marginal improvement."

c.     I request any and all documents which concern or relate to or define how much money is
meant by "very expensive to operate."




Page 1 of 2
        2.       In Section 1.4.8.10 the DEIR states: "This alternative could provide a small benefit
for a portion of the AM peak commute congestion (northbound) but not enough to significantly
reduce backups through the corridor."

a.      I request any and all documents which provide the support or the basis for that statement or
any part of that statement.

b.     I request any and all documents which concern or relate to or define how much benefit is
meant by "small benefit."

c.       I request any and all documents which concern or relate to or define what is meant by "a
portion."

d.     I request any and all documents which concern or relate to or define how much backup
would be reduced by implementation of the alternative.

       3.      Section 1.4.8.8 concerns bus service to Vallemar school. I request any and all
documents concerning or related to Caltrans' consideration of bus service to any other school or
schools in Pacifica.

        4.    Section 1.4.8.8 appears to concern SamTrans bus service. I request any and all
documents concerning or related to Caltrans' consideration of bus service provided by the
Pacifica School District or any other entity.

        5.     Section 1.4.8.8 appears to concern public bus service provided throughout the
day. I request any and all documents concerning or related to Caltrans' consideration of bus
service provided exclusively for students during the times necessary to travel to and from school.


        Thank you for your cooperation.



Sincerely,




Hal Bohner




Page 2 of 2
 file:///C|/Users/MSI/Documents/Calera%20Parkway/NEPA/NEPA%20ca...10,%202012/CPRA%2004-3310%20Records%20Request%20-%20Bohner.htm


                                       From:                     Heidemarie Carle [heidemarie_carle@dot.
                                       ca.gov]
                                       Sent:                     Thursday, November 01, 2012 12:37 PM
                                       To:                       hbohner@earthlink.net
                                       Cc:                       Jose Olveda
                                       Subject:                   CPRA 04-3310 Records Request - Bohner
                                       Attachments:               Transit Alternatives Analysis final 12-9-09.
                                       pdf; Final Traffic Ops Report.pdf; T091201PacificaBusStats.xls;
                                       SamTrans Transit Analysis.doc


Hal Bohner
115 Angelita Avenue
Pacifica, CA 94044

CPRA # 04-3310

Dear Hal:

This email is in response to your request dated October 20, 2012, and received October 22, 2012, sent to the California
Department of Transportation (Department), pursuant to the California Public Records Act (CPRA; Government Code Sections
6250-6276).

Below is an itemized response to your request. Electronic copies of the documents are attached at the bottom of this email.

Items 1.a-1.c:
Additional Transit Analysis Memo (December 8, 2009) prepared by Fehr & Peers
Transit ridership data and analysis provided by SamTrans
This item was also based on observation and professional judgment.

Items 2.a-2.d:
Additional Transit Analysis Memo (December 8, 2009) prepared by Fehr & Peers
Traffic Operations Analysis Report (2008) prepared by Fehr & Peers
Transit ridership data and analysis provided by SamTrans
This item was also based on field observation of peak hour and school traffic congestion and professional judgment.

Item 3:
Additional Transit Analysis Memo (December 8, 2009) prepared by Fehr & Peers
Transit ridership data and analysis provided by SamTrans
This item was also based on observation and professional judgment.

Item 4:
Additional Transit Analysis Memo (December 8, 2009) prepared by Fehr & Peers
Transit ridership data and analysis provided by SamTrans
This item was also based on observation and professional judgment.



 file:///C|/Users/MSI/Documents/Calera%20Parkway/N...RA%2004-3310%20Records%20Request%20-%20Bohner.htm (1 of 2) [7/19/2013 11:17:09 AM]
 file:///C|/Users/MSI/Documents/Calera%20Parkway/NEPA/NEPA%20ca...10,%202012/CPRA%2004-3310%20Records%20Request%20-%20Bohner.htm

Item 5:
Additional Transit Analysis Memo (December 8, 2009) prepared by Fehr & Peers
Transit ridership data and analysis provided by SamTrans
This item was also based on observation and professional judgment.

The Department believes this to be the full and complete response to your request and it comprises all documentation that can be
produced at this time. Please contact me if you need any further assistance or have questions regarding your request.

Sincerely,

Heidemarie Carle
Public Information Officer
District 4 CPRA Coordinator

Attachments 4




 file:///C|/Users/MSI/Documents/Calera%20Parkway/N...RA%2004-3310%20Records%20Request%20-%20Bohner.htm (2 of 2) [7/19/2013 11:17:09 AM]
Final Traffic Operations Report


State Route 1/
Calera Parkway Project



                                                                  Prepared for:

                                                   Mark Thomas and Company
                                                                           and
                                  the San Mateo County Transportation Authority


                                                                  Prepared by:

                                                                  Fehr & Peers
                                                      332 Pine Street, 4th Floor
                                                             San Francisco, CA

                                                                     SF07-0312

                                                                      July 2008
                                                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS



Executive Summary ................................................................................................................................................. 1

1. Introduction........................................................................................................................................................ 2
   Project Study Area............................................................................................................................................... 2
   Traffic Report Outline .......................................................................................................................................... 2

2. Traffic Analysis Methodology .......................................................................................................................... 4
   Travel Demand Forecasting methodology .......................................................................................................... 4
   Traffic Operations Analysis Methodology............................................................................................................ 8

3. Existing Conditions Analysis ......................................................................................................................... 10
   Project Study Area............................................................................................................................................. 10
   Data Collection .................................................................................................................................................. 10
   Transit Service................................................................................................................................................... 11
   Pedestrian Facilities .......................................................................................................................................... 11
   Bicycle Facilities ................................................................................................................................................ 12
   Traffic Operations Model Development............................................................................................................. 12
   Existing Intersection Operations........................................................................................................................ 13

4. Project Description.......................................................................................................................................... 16
   No Project Alternative........................................................................................................................................ 16
   Option ARoadway Widening Alternative........................................................................................................ 16
   Option BRoadway Widening + Pedestrian Overcrossing Alternative ............................................................ 16
   Option CGrade Separation Alternative .......................................................................................................... 17

5. Construction Year (2015) Operations Analysis ............................................................................................ 18
   Year 2015 Traffic Forecasts .............................................................................................................................. 18
   Analysis Results ................................................................................................................................................ 20

6. Cumulative Year (2035) Operations Analysis ............................................................................................... 25
   Year 2035 Traffic Forecasts .............................................................................................................................. 25
   Analysis Results ................................................................................................................................................ 27



                                                                         APPENDICES



Appendix A: LOS Calculation Worksheet
                                                            LIST OF FIGURES



Figure 1   Project Study Area ............................................................................................................................... 3

Figure 2   Existing Conditions Intersection Turning Movement Volumes........................................................... 14

Figure 3   2015 Intersection Turning Movement Volumes.................................................................................. 19

Figure 4   2035 Intersection Turning Movement Volumes.................................................................................. 26
                                                               LIST OF TABLES



Table 1: AM Peak Period Traffic Volume Increases ................................................................................................. 5

Table 2: Comparison of C/CAG Model Volumes with Existing Traffic Counts.......................................................... 5

Table 3: C/CAG Model Predicted Traffic Growth ...................................................................................................... 6

Table 4: Growth in Jobs and Households between 2005 and 2035 ......................................................................... 7

Table 5: Intersection LOS Definitions for Signalized Intersections........................................................................... 9

Table 6: Existing Conditions Intersection Levels of Service ................................................................................... 15

Table 7: SR 1 Travel Times and Queues................................................................................................................ 15

Table 8: Intersection Levels of Service Year 2015 Conditions ............................................................................... 21

Table 9: SR1 Travel Times and Queues Year 2015 Conditions............................................................................ 22

Table 10: Intersection Levels of Service Year 2035 Conditions ............................................................................. 29

Table 11: SR1 Travel Times and Queues Year 2035 Conditions.......................................................................... 30
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Fehr & Peers was retained by Mark Thomas & Company to provide traffic simulation and modeling services to aid
in the development of improvements to State Route 1 (SR 1), also known as the Calera Parkway, in Pacifica,
California. This portion of SR1 experiences heavy congestion in both the morning and evening peak periods.

Fehr & Peers utilized the VISSIM microsimulation software, which allows for complex traffic analysis based on
traffic volumes, traffic signal operations, roadway geometries, driver behavior, and pedestrian crossings. The
model simulated the portion of SR1 that experiences heavy congestion, from approximately 1.3 miles north of
Reina del Mar Avenue, to one mile south of Fassler Avenue. The model includes the Fassler Avenue / Rockaway
Beach and Reina del Mar intersections.

The first step was to develop an existing conditions simulation model. Following development and validation of
the existing conditions model (and subsequent approval by Caltrans), future conditions traffic volume forecasts
were developed along the study corridor. The future conditions traffic forecasts were used to analyze future
operating conditions along the study corridor without any improvements.

Three project alternatives were selected for evaluation.

    ·   Option A consists of widening SR1 from 2 to 3 lanes in both directions, from north of Reina del Mar
        Avenue to south of Fassler Avenue.

    ·   Option B is identical to Option A, except that a pedestrian overcrossing (POC) would be constructed
        across SR 1 at the Reina del Mar Avenue intersection. This would eliminate the need for a pedestrian
        signal phase, allowing more green time for the congested through movements along SR 1.

    ·   Option C involves the construction of a grade-separated interchange at Reina del Mar Avenue. Under
        this option, Reina del Mar Avenue would pass underneath SR1, eliminating the traffic signal. New on-
        and off-ramps would be provided, creating two side-street stop-controlled intersections along Reina del
        Mar Avenue. Additionally, SR 1 would be widened on both sides of the Fassler Avenue intersection to
        accommodate three northbound though lanes. In the southbound direction, the on-ramp from Reina del
        Mar Avenue would form a third southbound lane between Reina del Mar Avenue and Fassler Avenue.
        One of the three southbound lanes would become a southbound left turn lane at Fassler Avenue, and
        only two southbound through lanes would be provided at Fassler Avenue.

The three options were analyzed under both Construction Year (2015) and Future Year (2035) scenarios using
the microsimulation model. In both scenarios, Option C (grade separation at SR 1 and Reina del Mar Avenue)
would provide the greatest traffic operational benefit. In year 2035, travel times would generally decrease by
nearly 60 percent in the AM peak hour and over 70 percent in the PM peak hour. Queuing would be largely
reduced, and intersection approach queues at SR 1 / Fassler Avenue would generally clear each cycle.

However, there are additional factors that should be considered prior to selecting a design. Although Option C
performs better than Options A and B, all three options would provide substantial travel time savings and
reduction in vehicular queuing.




                                                                                                             1
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




1.      INTRODUCTION
This report analyzes peak period traffic operations and proposed improvements for the State Route 1 (SR 1) /
Calera Parkway project between just south of Fassler Avenue and just north of Reina del Mar Avenue in Pacifica,
California.

PROJECT STUDY AREA
The study area is depicted in Figure 1. Generally, the analysis described in this report examines transportation
operations on SR 1 from just south of Fassler Avenue to just north of Reina del Mar Avenue.

State Route 1 (SR 1) is a north-south roadway that extends along the California coastline. Generally, SR 1 is a
two-lane roadway, winding along the state's coastal bluffs. In Pacifica, near the study area SR 1 widens to four
lanes. Just north of the study area, SR 1 becomes a freeway for a short segment before merging with Interstate
280. Within the study area, SR 1 experiences peak period congestion in the northbound direction during the
morning peak periods and in the southbound direction in the evening.

Fassler Avenue is a two-lane roadway that extends east of SR 1 into the hills above Pacifica. A number of
residential streets connect to Fassler, which provides access from residential areas to SR 1. Near its intersection
with SR 1, Fassler Avenue widens to four lanes. Fassler Avenue experiences congestion in the westbound
direction (approaching SR 1) in the AM peak period. Fassler Avenue is relatively uncongested in the evening
peak period because traffic flow is constrained along SR 1 approaching Fassler Avenue. Rockaway Beach
Avenue extends west of SR 1 from the Fassler Avenue intersection and provides access to a small business and
shopping district and serves relatively small traffic volumes. .

Reina del Mar Avenue is a short two-lane street extending east of SR 1. Several small streets connect to Reina
del Mar, which provides access to SR 1. Vallemar Elementary School is located on the north side of Reina del
Mar, east of SR 1. In the AM peak period, a relatively high volume of traffic uses Reina del Mar to access the
elementary school. The signal at SR 1 / Reina del Mar limits the amount of traffic that can enter SR 1 from Reina
del Mar. As a result, during the peak period near the start of school, substantial queueing occurs on Reina del
Mar from parents departing the school after dropping off students.

TRAFFIC REPORT OUTLINE
The remainder of this report is divided into the following five chapters.

            ·    Chapter 2 ­ Traffic Analysis Methodology

            ·    Chapter 3 ­ Existing Conditions Analysis

            ·    Chapter 4 ­ Project Description

            ·    Chapter 5 ­ Construction Year (2015) Operations Analysis

            ·    Chapter 6 ­ Cumulative Year (2035) Operations Analysis

These chapters describe the methods and assumptions used to analyze the potential roadway improvements and
present the results of the operations analysis.




                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                          Lu
                                                                                           nd
                                                                                                                             ad
                                                                                                                        Ro




                                                                                               yW
                                                                                                           Sharp Park




                                                                                                 ay
                                                                              Fr
                                                                                an
                                                                                cis
                                                                                     co
                                                                                      Bo
                                                                                         ulev
                                                                                             ar
                                                                                               d
                                                                                                          Westport Street




                                                                                                      1




                                                                                     1                     Reina del Mar Av
                                                                                                                              enue




                            Ro
                              ck
                                 aw
                                   ay
                                        Be
                                            ac
                                              h
                                                  Av
                                                     enu
                                                         e

                                                             2
                                                                 Fa




                                                 Road
                                              ts
                                                                 ssl




                                            er
                                                                  er
                                      Rob




                                                                      Ave
                                                                        uen




                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                                                               No Scale
                                   Cr
                                      es




                                                                                                                                     LEGEND:
                                        pi
                                            Dr
                                             ive




                                                                                                                                       1   = Study Intersection


                                                                                                                                      SR 1 Calera Parkway PA-ED



                                                                                                                        STUDY INTERSECTIONS
February 2008
                                                                                                                                                        FIGURE 1
SF07-0312\graphics\0312-1
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




2. TRAFFIC ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY
Before discussing traffic operations for the roadway facilities, a thorough understanding of the methodologies
used to develop traffic forecasts and to conduct the traffic analysis is provided.

TRAVEL DEMAND FORECASTING METHODOLOGY
Fehr & Peers examined a number of alternatives for developing travel demand forecasts for this analysis.
Previous studies had concluded that the available travel demand forecasting models were not sensitive enough to
local roadways to accurately predict traffic growth on the relatively small scale required for this analysis.
Therefore, Fehr & Peers reviewed previous studies, available forecasting models, historical traffic counts, and
land use projections to develop forecasts for future traffic conditions.

Background

In March 2004, as part of a separate project, RKH Civil and Transportation Engineering studied this same
segment and determined a growth rate for future traffic based on their own counts (performed in 2000) and
projections from two regional traffic models. Their analysis showed the following:

    ·   A review of traffic counts collected by Caltrans over a 14-year period between 1988 ­ 2002 showed an
        average traffic growth of 0.36% annually on northbound SR 1, south of Linda Mar Boulevard (just south of
        the project study area), and 0.46% annually on northbound SR 1 north of Reina del Mar Avenue.
    ·   The City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG) travel demand forecasting model for San Mateo
        County was not well-enough calibrated in this area to make meaningful traffic forecasts.
    ·   The Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) model projects average traffic growth of 0.5%
        annually between 1998 and 2035.

Based on these findings, the previous analysis recommended use of a 0.5% annual growth factor to project the
background growth for year 2035 conditions traffic volumes along the study corridor. The previous study
recommended adding traffic from individual planned development projects within the City of Pacifica to the
background growth. Caltrans ultimately agreed with and approved this forecasting approach.

Updated Analysis ­ Traffic Growth Projections on SR 1

The RKH analysis was completed in 2004 and based on 2002 traffic volumes. Because conditions may have
changed since then, Fehr & Peers used a similar approach to developing a reasonable growth factor for purposes
of forecasting background traffic growth on SR 1 in Pacifica.

Traffic Counts

The RKH study noted that traffic volumes on northbound SR 1, south of Linda Mar Boulevard were 15,500
vehicles per day in 1988 and 16,300 vehicles per day in 2002, an average annual increase of 0.36% over 14
years. Comparison of 2000 counts with new 2007 traffic counts shows that recent trends are for slightly higher
annual growth. As shown in Table 1, traffic growth between 2000 and 2007 has been generally between 0.50%
and 0.74% annually. This suggests a growth factor of 0.75% annually would provide a conservatively high
estimate of background traffic growth along the study corridor.




                                                                                                              4
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




                                    Table 1: AM Peak Period Traffic Volume Increases


                                                                                       Average
                                            Year 2000      Year 2007        Increase   Annual %
                                                                                        Growth
                           Direction
                        Southbound            2,047             2,125            78     0.50 %
                        Northbound            4,926             5,180            254    0.74 %
                        Total                 6,973             7,305            332    0.68 %


                        Sources: RKH 2004, Fehr & Peers 2007.


C/CAG Model

The RKH study determined that the C/CAG model, designed as a regional traffic forecasting tool, did not offer
meaningful guidance for forecasting traffic on this localized portion of SR 1. However, the C/CAG model has
been updated since the RKH study was performed. Fehr & Peers has prepared a comparison of the newly-
updated C/CAG model to determine how well the model predicts existing traffic volumes and how reasonable the
model's growth forecasts are.

Table 2 presents a comparison of the existing traffic volumes with the C/CAG model forecasts. As shown, the
four-hour peak period model over-predicts actual peak direction travel by approximately fifty percent in the
morning and evening peak periods.




                     Table 2: Comparison of C/CAG Model Volumes with Existing Traffic Counts

                                                                  Model Base Year
                        Direction          Counts (2007)                               % Difference
                                                                      (2005)
                   AM Peak Period
                                                8,109                   12,424           + 53 %
                   Northbound
                   PM Peak Period
                                                8,922                   13,700           + 54 %
                   Southbound


                   Sources: RKH 2004, Fehr & Peers 2007.




Fehr & Peers also compared the model's traffic growth predictions. As shown in Table 3, the C/CAG model
predicts a two percent annual traffic growth in the peak direction over the next 25 years. Similar rates of traffic
growth can be observed in quickly-growing areas, such as urbanizing areas of San Joaquin or Stanislaus
Counties. However, in areas that are already developed, such as San Mateo County, and on facilities that are
already experiencing peak period congestion, it is unlikely that such a high rate of traffic growth can be achieved.



                                                                                                                  5
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




                                    Table 3: C/CAG Model Predicted Traffic Growth

                                                                  Future Year    Average Annual
                        Direction         Base Year (2005)
                                                                    (2035)        Growth Rate
                   AM Peak Period
                                               12,424                18,781             2%
                   Northbound
                   PM Peak Period
                                               13,700                20,768             2%
                   Southbound


                   Sources: RKH 2004, Fehr & Peers 2007.


While useful as a regional travel demand forecasting tool, the C/CAG model does not match existing volumes at
this specific location well, and the traffic growth projected appears to be unrealistically high; therefore, we do not
recommend using the C/CAG model for purposes of this project.

MTC Model

The RKH study presented results from the MTC travel demand forecasting model that supported a growth factor
of 0.5% annually. The MTC model has not substantially changed since these forecasts were developed in 2004.

Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) Land Use Projections

One element that the RKH study did not examine was regional land use projections, and                whether growth
projections support the use of historical information to produce a future growth rate estimate.      The peak traffic
flows on the study portion of SR 1 are northbound in the morning and southbound in the evening.      This is primarily
due to residential uses to the south and employment in the San Francisco area to the north.          Thus, the major
influence on traffic flows in the study area is the growth in households.

Fehr & Peers reviewed Projections 2007, the latest version of ABAG growth projections to see if the projected
growth in households and jobs in San Mateo County, and more specifically, the coastal areas likely to affect traffic
on SR 1, were consistent with a traffic growth rate of 0.75%. Table 4 shows the 2005 and projected 2035
numbers of households and jobs in San Mateo County, the Coastside Region, and Half Moon Bay.




                                                                                                                    6
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




                            Table 4: Growth in Jobs and Households between 2005 and 2035



                                                                                                        Annual %
          Region               Category          2005            2035       Change       % Change
                                                                                                         Change


                              Households       254,104         312,030      57,926        22.80%         0.76%


  San Mateo County               Jobs          386,590         522,000      135,410       35.03%         1.17%


                                 Total         640,694         834,030      193,336       30.18%         1.01%


                              Households        24,940          28,630       3,690        14.80%         0.49%
  Coastside

  (Half Moon Bay,
                                 Jobs           15,300          18,880       3,580        23.40%         0.78%
  Pacifica, Half Moon Bay
  Unincorporated,
  Remainder)
                                 Total          40,240          47,510       7,270        18.07%         0.60%


                              Households         8,410          10,050       1,640        19.50%         0.65%

  Half Moon Bay +
  Half Moon Bay                  Jobs            7,060          8,400        1,340        18.98%         0.63%
  Unincorporated Only

                                 Total          15,470          18,450       2,980        19.26%         0.64%


  Source: Projections 2007, Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG); and Fehr & Peers, April 2007




Total household growth in San Mateo County overall is expected to occur at an average annual rate of 0.76%,
consistent with the proposed traffic growth rate of 0.75%. While total job growth in San Mateo County is expected
to occur at a faster rate over the next 30 years, most of that growth is expected to occur in the inland areas, closer
to the US 101 corridor, and is not likely to have a substantial effect on traffic volumes on SR 1.

Much of the land uses in San Mateo County that contribute traffic to the subject SR 1 corridor lie in the
"Coastside" subarea of the County, defined by ABAG as the City of Half Moon Bay, the City of Pacifica,
unincorporated areas around Half Moon Bay, and the county "remainder" (i.e., rural, unincorporated areas of the
County not associated with specific cities or towns). Within this area, household growth is expected to occur at
just below 0.5% annually and job growth is expected to occur just above the proposed annual traffic growth rate of
0.75%. Overall, growth in jobs and households in the Coastside region is expected to be 0.6% annually. (Note
that this is an average for general comparison purposes and does not account for the fact that jobs and
households generate traffic at different rates).


                                                                                                                    7
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




The primary urban area that contributes peak traffic to the subject area is the Half Moon Bay region. A focused
analysis of this area shows that both jobs and households are expected to grow at a rate at or just under 0.65%,
annually.

In summary, the growth estimates from Projections 2007 show that the total household growth in San Mateo
County overall, the Coastside subarea, and the City of Half Moon Bay are all expected to occur at an annual rate
consistent with a traffic growth rate of 0.75%.

Updated Analysis - Other Roadways

There are two other primary roadways in the study area: Reina del Mar Avenue and Fassler Avenue. Reina del
Mar Avenue is a small residential street that serves an area that is largely built-out. Therefore, background
growth is not likely on this street.

Fassler Avenue is a slightly more significant street in southern Pacifica that serves primarily residential land uses
to the east of SR 1 and a largely built-out commercial retail development to the west. Because the western side
or SR 1 is largely built out, background growth on Rockaway Beach Avenue is unlikely. However, because of its
somewhat larger role as a collector street serving residential traffic east of SR 1, traffic on the east side of SR 1
could increase due to additional development. Projections 2007 estimates total household growth in the City of
Pacifica to occur at a rate of 0.4 percent annually. This represents a reasonable traffic growth assumption for
Fassler Avenue east of SR 1.

Conclusion

Based on the above information, a growth rate of 0.75% was determined to represent a reasonable and
conservative annual growth rate for background traffic along SR 1, consistent with recent traffic counts, the MTC
model, and projections of future development in coastal San Mateo County. It is unlikely that background traffic
will grow on Reina del Mar or on Rockaway Beach Avenue. Traffic on Fassler Avenue east of SR 1 may have
some background traffic growth because of the larger area it serves and the potential for additional development.
This background growth would likely be similar to the total growth in Pacifica's housing supply, or 0.4 percent
annually.

TRAFFIC OPERATIONS ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY
The traffic operations analysis addressed intersection operations at the two key study intersections (SR 1 / Reina
del Mar Avenue and SR 1 / Fassler Avenue). Key assumptions related to this analysis are listed below:

            ·   All analyses were conducted using procedures and methodologies contained in the Highway
                Capacity Manual (Transportation Research Board, 2000) (HCM 2000). These methodologies
                were applied using VISSIM, a microsimulation software program.

            ·   The HCM 2000 assigns level of service (LOS) based on average control delay. Because VISSIM
                does not measure control delay, total delay will be used instead to determine LOS. This
                conservative approach is recommended in Guidelines for Applying Traffic Microsimulation
                Modeling Software (Caltrans, 2002) since the other components of delay are significantly less
                than control delay.




                                                                                                                   8
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




            ·      A two hour and fifteen minute AM peak period (7:15 to 9:30 AM) and a two hour and forty-five
                   minute PM peak period (4:45 to 7:30 PM) were modeled in VISSIM. The AM peak hour was
                   between 7:30 and 8:30 while the PM peak hour occurred between 5:00 and 6:00 PM. Volumes
                   entered into the simulation were based on peak period traffic counts, subtotaled every fifteen
                   minutes. Similar patterns were assumed for future conditions. All LOS analysis results are for
                   the peak hour.

The analysis methodology described above was used to measure the AM and PM peak hour traffic operations for
the study intersections and study portions of SR 1. The analysis results include a descriptive term known as level
of service (LOS). LOS is a quantitative measure of traffic conditions that varies from LOS A (free-flow) to LOS F
(oversaturated). Table 5 summarizes the relationship between control delay and LOS for signalized intersections.



                            Table 5: Intersection LOS Definitions for Signalized Intersections



                                                                                                        Average
        Level of                                                                                      Control Delay
                                           Description of Traffic Conditions
        Service                                                                                        Per Vehicle
                                                                                                       (Seconds)


                       Insignificant Delays: No approach phase is fully utilized and no vehicle
           A                                                                                              <10
                       waits longer than one red indication.

                       Minimal Delays: An occasional approach phase is fully utilized. Drivers
           B                                                                                             >10-20
                       begin to feel restricted.

                       Acceptable Delays: Major approach phase may become fully utilized.
           C                                                                                             >20-35
                       Most drivers feel somewhat restricted.

                       Tolerable Delays: Drivers may wait through more than one red indication.
           D                                                                                             >35-55
                       Queues may develop but dissipate rapidly, without excessive delays.

                       Significant Delays: Volumes approaching capacity. Vehicles may wait
           E                                                                                             >55-80
                       through several signal cycles and long vehicle queues form upstream.

                       Excessive Delays: Represents conditions at capacity, with extremely long
            F                                                                                             >80
                       delays. Queues may block upstream intersections.


      Source: Highway Capacity Manual, Special Report 209, and Transportation Research Board, 2000.




                                                                                                                      9
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




3.       EXISTING CONDITIONS ANALYSIS
The existing conditions analysis presents the physical and operational characteristics of the roadway, transit,
bicycle, and pedestrian system in the project study area.

PROJECT STUDY AREA
As shown previously in Figure 1, the project study area includes analysis of two study intersections:

     1. SR 1 / Reina del Mar Avenue

     2. SR 1 / Fassler Avenue

DATA COLLECTION
Prior to collection of new traffic counts, Fehr & Peers performed field observations to understand the extent and
duration of existing queuing in the study area. In the AM peak period, northbound queues extend south of
Fassler, and nearly reach Crespi Drive on a typical weekday. This queuing begins and mostly dissipates within
the two-hour peak period from 7 AM to 9 AM. Small queues occasionally linger beyond 9 AM, but all congestion
is cleared by 9:15 AM. Queuing also develops on the westbound approach to SR 1 from Fassler Avenue for a
similar time period. This queuing extends past Roberts Boulevard during its peak, and can reach lengths of up to
½ mile. Another source of AM peak period queuing is on Reina del Mar Avenue. An elementary school just east
of SR 1 results in short-term surges in traffic volumes as parents drop off children. Parents exiting the school
must wait through a long traffic signal cycle on Reina del Mar at SR 1 to enter SR 1. This causes substantial
queuing of sometimes over 1,000 feet on westbound Reina del Mar for short periods near the beginning of the
school day.

In the evening, congestion is primarily on southbound SR 1. While there is congestion on southbound SR 1
between Fassler Avenue and Reina del Mar Avenue, the primary congestion is north of Reina del Mar Avenue.
Southbound queues from this intersection can stretch past Sharp Park Road, for queues of over one mile. Sharp
Park Road also experiences congestion due to relatively high volumes of traffic attempting to enter southbound
SR 1 from Sharp Park Road and the Francisco Boulevard ramps.

Once the extent of congestion was identified, Fehr & Peers selected the appropriate locations for new traffic
counts, which were collected in March 2007. Counts were collected upstream of the congested areas to ensure
that the counts represented all of the traffic demand. Counts consisted of AM and PM peak hour intersection
turning movement counts and peak period freeway mainline traffic counts. Intersection turning movement counts
were collected at the following intersections and are shown on Figure 2:

     ·   SR 1 / Crespi Drive

     ·   SR 1 / Fassler Avenue

     ·   SR 1 / Reina del Mar Avenue

     ·   SR 1 / Westport Street

     ·   SR 1 / Francisco Boulevard Southbound On-Ramp




                                                                                                              10
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




In addition, peak period freeway mainline counts were collected for southbound traffic on SR 1 at the Paloma
Avenue overcrossing.

In summary, traffic counts were collected at locations on SR 1 between Paloma Avenue and Crespi Drive. Since
both Paloma Avenue and Crespi Drive are outside of the congested areas, traffic counts in congested areas were
balanced to these uncongested volumes to develop intersection demand volume estimates. Figure 2 presents
the resulting existing AM and PM peak hour intersection turning movement demand volumes for the two primary
study intersections.

TRANSIT SERVICE
Transit service in Pacifica is provided by the San Mateo County Transit District, known as samTrans. samTrans
operates four bus routes in Pacifica.

    ·   Route CX provides express service along SR1 within the project area, with stops at Crespi Drive, Fassler
        Avenue, and Reina del Mar Avenue. The southern terminus is the Linda del Mar shopping center, while
        the northern terminus is the Colma BART station. Route CX operates with approximately 20 minute
        headways during commute hours, on weekdays only. Fares are $1.50 for adults, $1.00 for youth, and
        $0.75 for seniors and the disabled.

    ·   Route DX provides express service along SR1 within the project area, with stops at Crespi Drive, Fassler
        Avenue, and Reina del Mar Avenue. The southern terminus is the Linda del Mar shopping center, while
        the northern terminus is the Embarcadero BART station in downtown San Francisco. Route DX operates
        with approximately 20 minute headways during commute hours, on weekdays only. Fares are $4.00 for
        adults and $2.00 for youth, seniors and the disabled.

    ·   Route 110 provides local service along SR1 within the project area, with stops at Crespi Drive, Fassler
        Avenue, and Reina del Mar Avenue. The southern terminus is the Linda del Mar shopping center, while
        the northern terminus is the Daly City BART station. Route 110 operates with approximately 30 minute
        headways on weekdays from 8 am to 10 pm; approximately 60 minute headways on Saturdays from 7 am
        to 7:30 pm; and approximately 90 minute headways on Sundays and Holidays from 10 am to 5 pm.
        Fares are $1.50 for adults, $1.00 for youth, and $0.75 for seniors and the disabled.

    ·   Route 16 provides local school service along SR1, Fassler Avenue and Crespi Drive. Operation is limited
        to a few buses school days only, timed for the school day. Fares are $1.50 for adults, $1.00 for youth,
        and $0.75 for seniors and the disabled.

    The San Mateo County Transit District also operates RediCoast, a paratransit service. Riders are required to
    plan their trip at least one day in advance.

PEDESTRIAN FACILITIES
Pedestrian facilities include sidewalks, crosswalks, and pedestrian signals. North of Reina del Mar Avenue, there
is a sidewalk on the west side of the road; between Reina del Mar Avenue and Fassler Avenue, the sidewalk is on
the east side of the road. South of Fassler Avenue, there is a sidewalk on the west side of the road.. West of the
project site are popular recreational trails providing waterfront access.



Crosswalks with pedestrian signals are installed at Crespi Drive, Reina del Mar Avenue and Fassler Avenue.



                                                                                                               11
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




BICYCLE FACILITIES
There is a Class II Bicycle Lane on both sides of SR1 from Crespi Drive to Fassler Avenue. The remainder of
SR1 is a Class III Bicycle Route, with a shoulder that accommodates bicycles. According to the San Mateo
County Comprehensive Bicycle Route Plan, these shoulders are anticipated to be striped as Class II Bicycle
Lanes.

Bicycles are also permitted to ride on the recreational trails west of the project site.

TRAFFIC OPERATIONS MODEL DEVELOPMENT
The VISSIM model was constructed over an aerial photo of the project area to ensure that roadways and
locations of intersections were input to scale. Traffic signal operation (i.e., cycle lengths, phasing, and timing
plans) were provided by Caltrans and entered into the model. Traffic volumes were input into the model, based
on the counts and adjustments to reflect actual demand, as described above.

The AM and PM peak hour VISSIM models were calibrated and validated to existing conditions based on traffic
volumes and observed maximum vehicle queues. During this process, the model was visually inspected to
ensure that it reflected observed conditions.

As identified by the vehicle counts, the AM peak hour occurs from 7:30 to 8:30 AM, while the peak PM period is
from 5:00 to 6:00 PM. The model was constructed to start 15 minutes prior to the beginning of the peak period, to
properly "seed" the model with traffic before the peak-hour analysis. Thus, the model begins at 7:15 AM for the
AM model, and at 4:45 PM for the PM model. In addition to the 15-minute "seed" period and the 60-minute peak
hour analysis, the models included additional time after the peak hour to verify that the queue dissipated
consistently with observations. The AM model includes an additional 60 minutes (for a total of 135 minutes) and
the PM model includes an additional 90 minutes (for a total of 165 minutes). The results presented in the existing
conditions section of this memo are for the peak hour only.

Due to the width of Calera Parkway, when pedestrians are crossing, the amount of signal "green" time is
extended to allow for adequate pedestrian clearance. When this occurs, traffic operations are affected because
less green time is available for thru-traffic on SR 1. Pedestrian activity at the intersections were observed and
modeled in the simulation to account for this phenomenon.

Calibration

During calibration of a VISSIM model, individual components are adjusted to match field-observed data.
Calibration involves setting background traffic operation and driver behavior characteristics including yielding
right-of-way at intersections, gap acceptance, and traffic composition characteristics. The default values were
adjusted during this process so that the model would accurately reflect observed conditions. Adjusted default
values and other refinements made to calibrate/validate the VISSIM model are summarized as follows:

    ·   Reduced speed zones were placed on turns at intersections to reflect the effect turning vehicles have on
        through traffic

    ·   The vehicle mix was adjusted to include 2% heavy vehicles

    ·   Vehicle travel speeds were entered based on the posted speed limits, with a distribution of +/- 5 mph




                                                                                                                12
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




    ·   The portions of SR 1 north of Reina del Mar were coded as freeway links, with default driver behavior
        parameters more representative of freeway facilities, while other links in the network were coded as urban
        arterial links, with default driver behavior parameters more commonly exhibited on arterial streets.

Validation

As noted earlier, the model was validated to observed peak direction queuing based on visual inspection of the
model. In the AM peak period model, the SR 1 northbound queues extend approximately to Crespi Drive, the
westbound Fassler Avenue queues extend past Roberts Boulevard, and the queues on Reina del Mar extend
past the elementary school for a short period, all of which are consistent with field observations. In addition, after
reaching their maximum lengths, all queues dissipate to uncongested conditions within 45 minutes following the
peak hour.

In the PM peak period, the southbound queues on SR 1 extend just past the Sharp Park Road overcrossing.
Congestion also occurs near the SR 1 / Fassler Avenue intersection, with queues from the southbound left turn
lanes occasionally extending beyond the storage capacity of the turn lanes, occasionally blocking through traffic.
This model replicates this queuing in terms of extent and duration, consistent with field observations.

The models accurately reflect key bottleneck locations and queuing and are consistent with field observations.

Once each model was built and verified against field observations, it was run a total of 10 times using different
random seed values. Since microsimulation models such as VISSIM rely on the random arrival of vehicles,
multiple runs will each provide a slightly different simulation, which represent the day-to-day fluctuations in
congestion. Therefore, averaging the results of 10 separate runs provides a reasonable level of statistical
accuracy and validity.

EXISTING INTERSECTION OPERATIONS
Each study intersection was analyzed based on the volumes shown on Figure 2, existing (year 2007) lane
configurations, and the existing traffic signal timing data provided by Caltrans. The results are summarized in
Table 6. Detailed LOS calculations are contained in the Appendix.

Although these intersections are operated by Caltrans, it has traditionally been Caltrans' policy to adhere to locally
adopted operational performance standards. The City of Pacifica has adopted a standard of LOS D or better for
signalized intersections. During the AM and PM peak hours, as shown in Table 6, study intersections in the
project vicinity currently operate at LOS E or F. Therefore, these intersections operate unacceptably, based on
the City of Pacifica's performance standards.




                                                                                                                   13
                                                                                                        Lu
                                                                                                         nd
                                                                                                                                           ad
                                                                                                                                      Ro




                                                                                                             yW
                                                                                                                         Sharp Park




                                                                                                               ay
                                                                                            Fr
                                                                                              an
                                                                                              cis
                                                                                                   co
                                                                                                    Bo
                                                                                                       ulev
                                                                                                           ar
                                                                                                             d
                                                                                                                        Westport Street




                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                                         )
                                                                                                   44 94
                                                                                                 (2 (2,5
                                                                                             13 037 )

                                                                                                     )
                                                                                               1, (5
                                                                                                 44

                                                                                               8
                                                                                 5 (4) )                            292 (110)
                                                                                                                    0 (4)
                                                                                  33 2 (4
                                                                                   (3
                                                                                                                    122 (75) Re
                                                                                      )
                                                                                                                                ina del Mar Av   enue

                                                                                             1)
                                                                                          (1
                                                                                         7 30) )
                                                                                           , 3 9
                                                                                         (1 (7
                        Ro                                                             80 76
                            ck                                                      2,4 1
                              aw
                                 ay
                                      Be
                                        ac                                )
                                               h                    3) 74
                                                   Av             (4 1,6 )
                                                 ue
                                                      en       40 7 ( (956
                                         4                       68 4
                                       15 1 (6                     43
                                               5
                                      2 (22 )
                                        (4 )
                                          6)
                                                                   914 )
                                                                    7 (15 8)
                                                                     21 (4

                                                                        (339




                                                   5)
                                                (2 )
                                                                             )




                                              4 016 )
                                                 ,    5
                                               (1 (1
                                           708 10
                                      1,
                                                                  Fa




                                                        Road
                                                     ts
                                                                   ssl




                                                   er
                                                                    er
                                       Rob




                                                                       Ave
                                                                         uen




                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                                                                          No Scale
                                      Cr
                                           es




                                                                                                                                                LEGEND:
                                           pi
                                               Dr
                                                    ive




                                                                                                                                                 XX (YY) = AM (PM)


                                                                                                                                                 SR 1 Calera Parkway PA-ED

                                                                                                          EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                                                                             PEAK HOUR INTERSECTION VOLUMES
April 2008
                                                                                                                                                                FIGURE 2
SF07-0312\graphics\0312-2
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




                                Table 6: Existing Conditions Intersection Levels of Service



                                                                 AM Peak Hour                         PM Peak Hour
                                            Traffic
                 Intersection                                                   Peak                                Peak
                                           Control                              Hour                                Hour
                                                         Delay       LOS                      Delay      LOS
                                                                               Demand                              Demand
                                                                               Served                              Served


        SR1 & Reina del Mar Avenue          Signal        66          E          93%           138         F           89%


        SR1 & Fassler Avenue                Signal        195          F         93%           117         F           88%


        Source: Fehr & Peers, May 2007




Queue lengths and travel times are also good indicators of the performance of a facility. Table 7 provides
statistics taken from the model regarding average travel time, as well as average and maximum observed vehicle
queues. These statistics match field observations.



                                          Table 7: SR 1 Travel Times and Queues


                                                      Average   Maximum                 Average        Maximum
                                                      Reina del Reina del               Fassler         Fassler
                                         Travel Time Mar Queue Mar Queue                 Queue          Queue
                                                    1                                           2
                                          (minutes)     (feet)    (feet)                 (feet)          (feet)2
                   AM Northbound              5.1           1,031          2,805          1,535          3,260
                   PM Southbound              8.4           2,929          7,685          2,478          3,206
                   Source: Fehr & Peers, 2007.
                   1. Travel times measured from just north of Crespi Drive to just north of Reina del Mar Avenue
                           (for AM Northbound, a distance of 1.6 miles), and from about 1.8 miles north of Reina del
                           Mar Avenue to just south of Fassler Avenue (for PM Southbound, a distance of 2.5
                           miles).



Examining the entire network, we can also determine the average delay per vehicle that travels through the
network, whether they travel through one or both intersections. The average delay per vehicle for the AM and PM
peak hours is:

   ·   127 average seconds of delay per vehicle in the AM peak hour
   ·   128 average seconds of delay per vehicle in the PM peak hour

                                                                                                                             15
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




4. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The proposed improvements along SR 1 have been developed to address recurring peak period queuing in the
area. This chapter provides a discussion of the three alternatives analyzed, in addition to the No Project
alternative.

NO PROJECT ALTERNATIVE
For the no project alternative, existing roadway configurations and future traffic volume projections were used to
determine future roadway operations if no improvements were made to the study corridor.

OPTION AROADWAY WIDENING ALTERNATIVE
Under this alternative, SR 1 between just south of Fassler Avenue and just north of Reina del Mar avenue would
be widened to provide three through travel lanes in each direction. This would provide increased throughput
capacity through the two study intersections.

In the northbound direction, a third lane would be added to SR1 beginning 1,250 feet south of the intersection with
Fassler Avenue. This third lane would be carried north, through the intersection with Reina del Mar Avenue. The
lane would end 1,600 feet north of the intersection with Reina del Mar Avenue, at which point the roadway would
begin to transition back to the existing two-lane configuration.

In the southbound direction, a third lane would be added to SR1 beginning 1,250 feet north of Reina del Mar
Avenue. This third lane would carry through the intersection with Reina del Mar Avenue. Three southbound
lanes would be provided between Reina del Mar Avenue and Fassler Avenue. One of these lanes would become
one of the two southbound left turn lanes from SR1 to Fassler Avenue, leaving only two southbound through
lanes south of Fassler Avenue.

Because the intersections at both Fassler Avenue and Reina del Mar Avenue would be widened, a pedestrian
would require extra time to cross the street. The analysis assumes that minimum required pedestrian crossing
times across SR1 would be increased by 8 seconds at each intersection.

OPTION BROADWAY WIDENING + PEDESTRIAN OVERCROSSING ALTERNATIVE
This alternative is similar to the Option A, except that in addition, a pedestrian overcrossing would be provided
across SR 1 on the south side of the Reina del Mar Avenue intersection. Currently, when the pedestrian signal
phase is actuated across SR 1, the amount of green time allocated to the eastbound Reina del Mar Avenue
approach is increased to allow sufficient crossing time for pedestrians. This shortens the amount of green time
provided to northbound and southbound movements on SR 1. If a pedestrian overcrossing were provided,
pedestrians could cross SR 1 freely without affecting the traffic throughput of the SR 1 / Reina del Mar Avenue
intersection.

While a pedestrian overcrossing theoretically removes pedestrians and bicyclists from the road (thus improving
safety), there is no guarantee that pedestrians will use it. If not designed properly, overcrossings can produce a
circuitous and strenuous route for pedestrians. Under these circumstances, some pedestrians may choose to
cross at the street level, which can be a major safety hazard because the pedestrian signal phase would be
removed. For these reasons, many jurisdictions do not construct overcrossings. Construction of any
overcrossing should strive to provide the most direct connection, as well as adequate barriers to direct
pedestrians to the structure and discourage street-level crossings.


                                                                                                                16
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




OPTION CGRADE SEPARATION ALTERNATIVE
This alternative would involve constructing a grade separation of the SR 1 / Reina del Mar Avenue intersection.
As currently envisioned, SR 1 would be elevated to pass over Reina del Mar Avenue. Access to SR 1 from Reina
del Mar Avenue would be provided via a tight diamond interchange, with stop sign control on the off-ramps to
Reina del Mar Avenue.

In addition, this alternative would widen SR1 north and south of the intersection with Fassler Avenue, to increase
its capacity. In the northbound direction, a third lane would be added to SR1 1,250 feet before the intersection
with Fassler Avenue. This lane would be carried through the intersection until 400 feet north of the intersection
with Fassler Avenue, followed by a transition back to the existing two-lane configuration. Approaching the Reina
del Mar Avenue overpass along northbound SR 1, an exit ramp would be provided 500 feet before the cross
street. The entrance ramp for traffic entering northbound SR 1 from Reina del Mar Avenue would also be 500
feet long and would have a 700-foot merge section.

In the southbound direction, there would be an exit ramp from SR1 to Reina del Mar Avenue 500 feet before the
cross street. There would also be a 500-foot entrance ramp from Reina del Mar Avenue to southbound SR 1 that
would become a third southbound lane. Similar to the other alternatives, between Reina del Mar Avenue and
Fassler Avenue, one of the three southbound lanes would become a left-turn only lane for the southbound left
turn onto Fassler Avenue. As exists today, only two lanes would travel southbound through the intersection with
Fassler Avenue.

Because the intersection of SR1 and Fassler Avenue would be widened by two lanes, it would take a pedestrian
extra time to cross the street. To account for this, pedestrian crossing times across SR1 have been increased by
8 seconds at Fassler Avenue.




                                                                                                               17
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




5. CONSTRUCTION YEAR (2015) OPERATIONS ANALYSIS
This section describes the construction year 2015 AM and PM peak hour operating conditions within the study
area, as modeled in the simulation, under each of the three project scenarios and the No Project alternative.
Measures of effectiveness including intersection levels of service, travel times, and queue lengths are presented.

YEAR 2015 TRAFFIC FORECASTS
The methodology for development of traffic forecasts was described earlier in this report. The resulting traffic
forecasts are described below.

Annual Growth Factor

As described earlier, an annual background traffic growth rate of 0.75% was chosen for SR 1, both in the
northbound and southbound directions, and for both the AM and PM peak hours. As the future year is 2015, and
the base year counts were conducted in 2007, there are eight years of growth. This creates an expected overall
traffic growth over the time period of 6.2%.

The traffic forecasting methodology discussion also identified an annual background traffic growth rate of 0.4% for
other roadways within Pacifica experiencing new development. This creates an overall growth of 3.2% over the
eight year period. This growth was applied to Fassler Avenue east of SR 1.

The other roads shown in the VISSIM traffic analysis model (Reina del Mar Avenue and Fassler
Avenue/Rockaway Beach Avenue west of SR 1) are not anticipated to see traffic growth due to regional
background growth. Thus, traffic from these streets was not scaled upward.

Anticipated Developments

In addition to background traffic growth along the study corridor due to regional development and regional traffic
increases, traffic associated with several developments in the City of Pacifica was also incorporated into the traffic
forecasts. The City of Pacifica provided Fehr & Peers with the traffic impact studies of several pending
developments within the study area. Each of these developments is expected to generate trips at one or both of
the study intersections. These projects include:

    1.   5 single family residential units on Piedmont Avenue
    2.   34-unit condominium development on Fassler Avenue, The Prospects
    3.   63-unit condominium development on Fassler Avenue at Route 1
    4.   11 single family residential units on Higgins Way
    5.   22-room addition to an existing hotel on Kick Gust Way
    6.   7-unit condominium project on Adobe Drive
    7.   14 single family residential units on Roberts Road
    8.   13 single family residential units in Pedro Point, Shoreside

    Source: RKH Transportation Consultants




                                                                                                                   18
                                                                                                     Lu
                                                                                                      nd
                                                                                                                                        ad
                                                                                                                                   Ro




                                                                                                          yW
                                                                                                                      Sharp Park




                                                                                                            ay
                                                                                         Fr
                                                                                           an
                                                                                           cis
                                                                                                co
                                                                                                 Bo
                                                                                                    ulev
                                                                                                        ar
                                                                                                          d
                                                                                                                     Westport Street




                                                                                                                 1




                                                                                                      )
                                                                                                46 06
                                                                                              (2 (2,7
                                                                                          13 109 )

                                                                                                  )
                                                                                            1, (5
                                                                                              44

                                                                                            9
                                                                              5 (4) )                            295 (112)
                                                                                                                 1 (4)
                                                                               33 2 (4
                                                                                (3
                                                                                                                 123 (75) Re
                                                                                   )
                                                                                                                             ina del Mar Av   enue

                                                                                          1)
                                                                                       (1
                                                                                      7 36) )
                                                                                        , 4 0
                                                                                      (1 (8
                            Ro                                                      71 77
                              ck                                                 2,5 1
                                 aw
                                   ay
                                        Be                               )
                                          ac                      5) 78
                                                 h
                                                     Av         (8 1,6 22)
                                                        en   60 9 ( (1,0
                                           5       ue          71 5
                                         17 6 (8                 45
                                                 6
                                        8 (52 )
                                          (3 )
                                            7)
                                                                980 8)
                                                                 12 (1 1)
                                                                  24 (5

                                                                     (379




                                                    4)
                                                  (3 2)
                                                                          )




                                               17 ,06 8)
                                                 (1 (1
                                             719 11
                                        1,
                                                               Fa




                                                      Road
                                                   ts
                                                                 ssl




                                                 er
                                                                  er
                                         Rob




                                                                    Ave
                                                                        n
                                                                       ue




                                                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                                                       No Scale
                                        Cr
                                         es




                                                                                                                                             LEGEND:
                                             pi
                                                 Dr
                                                     ive




                                                                                                                                              XX (YY) = AM (PM)


                                                                                                                                              SR 1 Calera Parkway PA-ED

                                                                                                           2015 CONDITIONS INTERSECTION
                                                                                                            TURNING MOVEMENT VOLUMES
April 2008
                                                                                                                                                             FIGURE 3
SF07-0312\graphics\0312-3
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




The trips generated from these projects were added to the future conditions model. The resulting traffic volume
forecasts, which incorporate the regional growth and traffic increases associated with individual developments
within Pacifica, are depicted in Figure 3.

Levels of Service

The VISSIM analysis results compared over all alternatives to the 2015 No Build alternative are summarized in
Tables 8 and 9. Detailed LOS and queue length calculations are contained in the Appendix.

Although these intersections are operated by Caltrans, it has traditionally been Caltrans' policy to adhere to locally
adopted operational performance standards. The City of Pacifica has adopted a standard of LOS D or better for
signalized intersections. As described in the Existing Conditions chapter of this report, the two study intersections
currently operate at LOS E or F in both the AM and PM peak hours, which is below the City's adopted standard.

While LOS is a typical Measure of Effectiveness (MOE) in most corridor studies, when dealing with severely
congested intersections, LOS alone cannot convey the entire situation. For example, a signal with 90 seconds of
delay and a signal with 300 seconds of delay are both labeled as LOS F, although the relative experience for a
driver may be very different between the two.

This report provides several other MOE's, which, taken collectively, can effectively measure and describe
operating conditions. Percentage of demand served shows the amount of travel demand that can get through an
intersection in a peak hour, with the unserved demand waiting in queue. Queue length shows how many cars are
waiting, and also indicates that long queues may spill back into upstream intersections, compounding delay.
Travel times are probably the most relevant to the typical motorist, and provide an indication of his or her traveling
experience. Seconds of delay per vehicle is a good baseline measurement which takes into consideration all
vehicles, not only those in the peak direction.

ANALYSIS RESULTS
Tables 8 and 9 summarize and compare the results analysis of the three alternatives and the No Build alternative.
All three alternatives would improve traffic flow in the year 2015. All three options offer substantial improvement
to intersection levels of service, travel times, and queuing. Of the three, Option C, the grade separation
alternative, has the greatest benefit to traffic operations. Options A and B offer similar levels of improvement.
While Option C does offer greater benefits to drivers compared to the other options, other factors, such as
pedestrian circulation and cost should be considered before selecting a preferred alternative.

A discussion of the expected opening day operating conditions for each of the alternatives is provided below.

No Build Alternative

Under this alternative, no changes would be made to the roadway network. As traffic would increase due to both
background growth and new development, as listed above, congestion and delay would increase as well.

AM Peak Period

Congestion during the AM period would deteriorate compared to existing conditions. Operations would remain
similar for the Reina del Mar intersection, with an increase in delay from 66 to 68 seconds per vehicle. This is
because traffic approaching this intersection is metered by the Fassler Avenue signal. The Fassler intersection


                                                                                                                   20
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




would degrade from 195 to 345 seconds of delay. Maximum queue lengths on the northbound approach to
Fassler Avenue would increase from 3,260 to 5,305 feet. Northbound travel times will increase by approximately
20%, from 5.1 to 5.9 minutes.

PM Peak Period

Increased demand will cause delay at the Reina del Mar intersection will increase, from 138 to 202 seconds. This
will cause southbound queues to grow, from 7,685 to 9,549 feet. Because the Reina del Mar intersection meters
traffic to the Fassler intersection, delay at Fassler Avenue will only increase from 117 to 124 seconds. Travel
times will increase from 8.4 to 9.5 minutes, or 13%.




                                           Table 8: Intersection Levels of Service
                                                    Year 2015 Conditions


                                                                   AM Peak Hour                  PM Peak Hour
                                                Traffic                         Peak                         Peak
                                                Control                         Hour                         Hour
                                                           Delay       LOS     Demand
                                                                                         Delay       LOS    Demand
                                                                               Served                       Served

          SR1 & Reina del Mar (No Build)        Signal       68         E         91%    202          F         86%

          SR1 & Reina del Mar (Option A)        Signal       51         D         100%    34          C         100%

          SR1 & Reina del Mar (Option B)        Signal       49         D         100%    24          C         100%
         SR1 East Ramps & Reina del Mar
                                                 Stop        33         D         84%     17          C         89%
                   (Option C)
        SR1 West Ramps & Reina del Mar
                                                 Stop        11         B         93%     17          C         100%
                  (Option C)




         SR1 & Fassler Avenue (No Build)        Signal      345         F         91%    124          F         85%

         SR1 & Fassler Avenue (Option A)        Signal       60         E         100%    54          D         100%

         SR1 & Fassler Avenue (Option B)        Signal       59         E         100%    47          D         100%

         SR1 & Fassler Avenue (Option C)        Signal       61         E         100%    32          C         100%

    Source: Fehr & Peers, January 2008




                                                                                                                       21
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




Option A--Roadway Widening Alternative

With this alternative, both directions of SR1 would be widened from 2 to 3 lanes. The traffic operational analysis
assumed that traffic signal timing would be optimized for the changed roadway configuration. Specifically, the
analysis assumes that traffic signal timing for the intersection of SR1 and Fassler Avenue would be modified to
give more green time to the westbound Fassler Avenue approach of SR1, with a corresponding reduction for the
northbound SR1 movement (which now has three lanes). The overall cycle length was not changed.

AM Peak Period

In the AM peak period, this alternative presents substantial improvements in service compared to the No Build
Alternative. Both study intersections experience a LOS improvement of one letter grade. One hundred percent of
traffic is served, compared to approximately 90 percent served under the No Build Alternative. In addition,
maximum vehicle queues would decrease by approximately 75 percent compared to the No Build alternative.
Travel time and overall delay also substantially improve. Travel time would improve by approximately 1/3, or two
minutes. Despite this improvement, the intersection of Fassler Avenue / SR 1 would operate at LOS E. The
overall average network wide delay would be 55 seconds of delay per vehicle in the AM peak hour, compared to
201 seconds under No Build conditions, a decrease of 73 percent.




                                            Table 9: SR1 Travel Times and Queues
                                                     Year 2015 Conditions

                            Travel Time         Average Reina Maximum Reina Average Fassler   Maximum
                             (minutes)
                                       1        del Mar Queue del Mar Queue     Queue       Fassler Queue

                                                   AM Peak Hour - Northbound
          No Build               5.9                 1,074               2,804                 4,361               5,305
          Option A               3.8                  446                2,312                 142                  876
          Option B               3.8                  404                2,103                 132                  830
                                                            2                 2
          Option C               2.8                  n/a                 n/a                  157                  823
                                                   PM Peak Hour - Southbound
          No Build               9.5                 4,893               9,549                 2,627               3,207
          Option A               3.4                  109                 951                  448                 2,400
          Option B               3.4                  52                  772                  319                 2,061
                                                            2                 2
          Option C               3.2                  n/a                 n/a                   95                 1,102
          Source: Fehr & Peers, January 2008.
          1. Travel times measured from just north of Crespi Drive to just north of Reina del Mar Avenue (for AM Northbound, a
                  distance of 1.6 miles), and from about 1.8 miles north of Reina del Mar Avenue to just south of Fassler Avenue
                  (for PM Southbound, a distance of 2.5 miles).
          2. Because there is no longer an intersection, there are no queues under Option C.



                                                                                                                                   22
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




PM Peak Period

In the PM peak period, Option A presents even greater improvements in service than in the AM peak period. The
southbound left-turn movement at Fassler Avenue will continue to experience congestion, but queues from this
intersection will not spill back to the intersection with Reina del Mar Avenue. Because there would be three
southbound lanes instead of two between Reina del Mar Avenue and Fassler Avenue, and one of the lanes would
become one of the two left-turn lanes, queues would not spill back from the Fassler Avenue intersection to disrupt
through traffic.

Based on observations of the simulation model, southbound queues at the intersection of Reina del Mar Avenue
dissipate within each signal cycle. Virtually all congestion on SR1 north of Reina del Mar Avenue would be
eliminated. This is reflected at the Reina del Mar Avenue intersection, which would improve from LOS F under
No Build conditions to LOS C. Travel times would be reduced by 63 percent, while overall vehicle delay would be
reduced by 81 percent. Both study intersections would operate at acceptable LOS D or better.


The average network-wide delay per vehicle would be 44 seconds per vehicle in the PM peak hour, compared to
163 seconds under No Build conditions, a decrease of 73 percent.

Option B--Roadway Widening + Pedestrian Overcrossing Alternative

This alternative is the same as the alternative listed above, except that a pedestrian overcrossing would be
installed at the intersection of Reina del Mar Avenue and SR1. This would eliminate the pedestrian signal phase
across SR 1 at this intersection, which would allow more green time for the vehicular through movements. (Note
that Option B includes all of the improvements associated with Option A.)

AM Peak Period

While constructing the pedestrian overcrossing as proposed under Option B may have traffic operational benefits
if it were a stand-alone project, combining the pedestrian overcrossing with the roadway widening described in
Option A offers few additional benefits compared to Option A, as shown in Tables 8 and 9. The overall average
network wide delay would be 53 seconds of delay per vehicle in the AM peak hour, compared to 201 seconds
under No Build conditions, a decrease of 74 percent.

PM Peak Period

Similar to the AM peak period, the construction of the pedestrian overcrossing provides very little improvement in
operations, compared to the benefit associated with Option A. The overall average network wide delay would be
36 seconds of delay per vehicle in the AM peak hour, compared to 163 seconds under No Build conditions, a
decrease of 78 percent.

Option CGrade Separation Alternative

This scenario assumes the construction of a grade-separated intersection at Reina del Mar Avenue and SR1. A
diamond interchange would be built for access to Reina del Mar Avenue. Ramp terminal intersections on Reina
del Mar Avenue would be side-street stop sign controlled. This configuration would have the benefit of the
removal of the traffic signal for northbound and southbound traffic, which is the primary traffic bottleneck in the AM
peak hour, and a substantial contributor to congestion in the PM peak hour. Similar to the analysis of Options A
and B, the analysis of Option C assumes that at the SR1 intersection with Fassler Avenue, traffic signal green
time would be shifted from the northbound approach to the westbound approach. The northbound and


                                                                                                                   23
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




southbound directions along SR 1 would have three lanes instead of two, and therefore require less signal green
time.

AM Peak Period

Option C provides the most substantial traffic operation benefit of the options. In the northbound direction,
vehicles would travel at free-flow speeds north of Fassler Avenue. The intersection of Fassler Avenue and SR1
would improve as a result of grade separation at SR1 and Reina del Mar Avenue because queues from that
intersection would no longer back up to Fassler Avenue. In addition, SR1 would be widened to three northbound
lanes just north and south of Fassler Avenue allowing more vehicles to travel through the intersection. The
intersection of SR1 and Fassler Avenue would improve from LOS F under No Build conditions to LOS E, and
queues on northbound SR1 at Fassler Avenue, as well as westbound Fassler Avenue, would generally clear
within each signal cycle length. The two ramp terminal intersections at Reina del Mar Avenue would operate at
LOS A. The overall average network wide delay would be 48 seconds of delay per vehicle in the AM peak hour,
compared to 201 seconds under No Build conditions, a decrease of 76 percent.

PM Peak Period

While the Reina del Mar interchange has been eliminated, drivers under this alternative would still experience
some congestion during the PM peak hour due to the heavy left-turn volume from southbound SR1 to Fassler
Avenue. With removal of the SR 1 / Reina del Mar Avenue intersection, more vehicles would be able to reach the
SR 1 / Fassler Avenue intersection. However, as with Options A and B, one of the three southbound lanes
between Reina del Mar Avenue and Fassler Avenue would become a left-turn lane, meaning that queues for left-
turning traffic would not impede through traffic. The two ramp terminal intersections at Reina del Mar Avenue
would operate at LOS B or better.

Despite this, Option C would continue to provide substantial improvements to SR 1, compared to the No Build
alternative. It would also offer the most benefits of the project alternatives. The overall average network wide
delay would be 28 seconds of delay per vehicle in the PM peak hour, compared to 163 seconds under No Build
conditions, a decrease of 83 percent.




                                                                                                             24
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




6. CUMULATIVE YEAR (2035) OPERATIONS ANALYSIS
This section describes the future year 2035 AM and PM peak hour operating conditions within the study area, as
modeled in the simulation, under each of the three project scenarios and the No Project alternative. Measures of
effectiveness including intersection levels of service, travel times, and queue lengths are presented.

YEAR 2035 TRAFFIC FORECASTS
The methodology for development of traffic forecasts was described earlier in this report. The resulting traffic
forecasts are described below. Figure 4 shows year 2035 projected traffic volumes in the study area.

Annual Growth Factor

As described earlier, an annual background traffic growth rate of 0.75% was chosen for SR 1, both in the
northbound and southbound directions, and for both the AM and PM peak hours. As the future year is 2035 and
the base year counts were conducted in 2007, there are 28 years of growth. This creates an expected overall
traffic growth over the time period of 23.3%.

The traffic forecasting methodology discussion also identified an annual background traffic growth rate of 0.4% for
other roadways within Pacifica experiencing new development. This creates an overall growth of 11.8% over the
28 year period. This growth was applied to Fassler Avenue east of SR 1.

The other roads shown in the VISSIM traffic analysis model (Reina del Mar Avenue and Fassler
Avenue/Rockaway Beach Avenue west of SR 1) are not anticipated to see traffic growth due to regional
background growth over the 28-year period. Thus, traffic from these streets was not scaled upward.

Anticipated Development

All of the minor developments assumed in the 2015 Operations Analysis were assumed to also be present in the
2035 analysis.

Development of the Quarry Site

Immediately to the west of the study corridor is a large vacant site known as the "Quarry Site." Several
developments have been proposed on this parcel, but due to local opposition to further development, the site
remains vacant.

While it is impossible to predict what development, if any at all, will ultimately take place on this site, this analysis
assumed that the land would be developed according to its current zoning, which is zoned for light industrial and
warehousing uses, as well as a commercial shopping center.

Development of this site will increase the volume of northbound left-turning vehicles into this site. The northbound
left-turn pocket will need to be extended from the current 250 to 350 feet.




                                                                                                                      25
                                                                                                            Lu
                                                                                                             nd
                                                                                                                                               ad
                                                                                                                                          Ro




                                                                                                                 yW
                                                                                                                             Sharp Park




                                                                                                                   ay
                                                                                                Fr
                                                                                                  an
                                                                                                  cis
                                                                                                       co
                                                                                                        Bo
                                                                                                           ulev
                                                                                                               ar
                                                                                                                 d
                                                                                                                            Westport Street




                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                                             )
                                                                                                       46 89
                                                                                                     (2 (3,0
                                                                                                 13 263 9)

                                                                                                         )
                                                                                                   1, (2
                                                                                                     56

                                                                                                   9
                                                                                                                        295 (112)
                                                                                    18 33 35)
                                                                                                                        1 (4)
                                                                                       (1 (4)
                                                                                         9)
                                                                                          8



                                                                                                                        123 (75) Re
                                                                                            (



                                                                                                                                    ina del Mar Av   enue

                                                                                                 4)
                                                                                               (2 7)
                                                                                            89 ,86 0)
                       Ro                                                                     (1 (8
                            ck                                                             25 77
                              aw                                                        3,4 1
                                 ay
                                      Be
                                        ac
                                                h                            )
                                                    Av                5) 11
                                                       e            (8 2,0 03)
                                                 e
                                                        nu       72 9 ( (1,1
                                         69                        82 3
                                        17 (10                       49
                                      14 (5 )  4
                                         (6 2)
                                           6)
                                                                    1,05 8)
                                                                     12 (1 5)
                                                                      26 (5

                                                                         8 (43




                                                          8)
                                                        (4 1)
                                                                               6)




                                                     44 ,43 9)
                                                       (1 (1
                                             5      64 12
                                           2,
                                                                   Fa




                                                          Road
                                                       ts
                                                                     ssl




                                                     er
                                                                      er
                                           Rob




                                                                        Ave
                                                                            n
                                                                           ue




                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                                              No Scale
                                       Cr
                                            es




                                                                                                                                                    LEGEND:
                                                pi
                                                    Dr
                                                      ive




                                                                                                                                                     XX (YY) = AM (PM)


                                                                                                                                                     SR 1 Calera Parkway PA-ED

                                                                                                                  2035 CONDITIONS INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                   TURNING MOVEMENT VOLUMES
March 2008
                                                                                                                                                                    FIGURE 4
SF07-0312\graphics\0312-4
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




The ABAG growth projections for Pacifica indicate 90 new industrial jobs and 150 new retail jobs will be added
between 2005 and 2035. After conversation with the Pacifica Planning and Economic Development Department,
it was assumed that 90 percent of these new jobs would take place on the Quarry site, as this represents
approximately 90 percent of the developable land remaining in Pacifica. Using the ITE Trip Generation
Handbook, the site's trip generation was forecasted. Trips were assigned north or south on SR 1 based on
existing traffic proportions. It was assumed that half of the trips would access the site via Reina del Mar Avenue,
and the other half via Fassler Avenue. The additional traffic associated with the other anticipated developments
in Pacifica as well as potential development at the Quarry Site was added on top of the background growth
discussed earlier associated with regional traffic increases to present a conservative analysis.

Other Changes to the Network

Development of the Quarry site would likely entail access improvements. The analysis assumes that if the Quarry
Site were developed, an eastbound right turn pocket would be built at the intersection of Reina del Mar Avenue
and SR 1, for vehicles leaving the project site and traveling south. At the intersection of Fassler Avenue and SR
1, a right turn pocket already exists, so no improvements are expected there associated with the Quarry Site.

No other elements of the network were changed.

ANALYSIS RESULTS
Tables 10 and 11 summarize and compare the results of the three alternatives and the No Build alternative. All
three alternatives will improve traffic flow in the year 2035. Similar to the 2015 analysis, Option C, the grade
separation alternative, has the greatest benefit to traffic operations, because it essentially replaces a signalized
intersection with a grade-separated facility. However, as with the year 2015 analysis, all three options offer
substantial benefits compared to the No Build alternative.

No Build Alternative

Under this alternative, no changes would be made to the roadway network except for the installation of a right-
turn pocket for eastbound Reina del Mar Avenue, associated with potential development at the Quarry Site, as
described earlier. Traffic volumes would increase due to background growth, new smaller development, and the
development of the Quarry Site.

It should be noted that under this alternative, vehicle queue lengths extended beyond the limits of the model,
specifically beyond Linda del Mar Boulevard (in the AM) and Sharp Park Road (in the PM). The model could not
be extended because data was not collected at these intersections. To estimate the additional queue length
beyond the model limits, 25 feet was added for each unserved vehicle. To estimate the additional travel time
through this extra queue, travel speeds were assumed to be 9 miles per hour.

AM Peak Hour

Compared to existing conditions, operations would severely degrade. While average delay at the Reina del Mar
intersection would only increase from 66 to 70 seconds (due to the metering effect of the upstream Fassler
intersection), delay at Fassler Avenue would increase from 195 to 389 seconds. This will cause the northbound
queue at on SR 1 at Fassler Avenue to grow from 3,260 to 9,213 feet. Northbound travel time will increase
almost 150%, from 5.1 to 12.6 minutes.




                                                                                                                 27
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




PM Peak Hour

During the PM rush hour, delay at the Reina del Mar intersection is expected to almost double, from 138 seconds
to 251 seconds, per vehicle. Queue lengths at the southbound approach at Reina del Mar will increase from
7,685 feet to 11,575 feet, and southbound travel times will grow from 8.4 to 15.4 minutes, about an 83% increase.

Option A--Roadway Widening Alternative

As described previously, Option A would involve widening SR 1 between just south of Fassler Avenue to just
north of Reina del Mar Avenue from four lanes to six. To accommodate additional demand, the northbound left-
turn pocket at Reina del Mar Avenue would need to be extended approximately 100 feet.



AM Peak Period

In the AM peak period, Option A presents substantial improvements in service compared to the No Build
Alternative, but congestion would remain. Option A would increase the percentage of traffic demand that could be
served from approximately 75 percent under No Build conditions to over 90 percent. Both intersections would
operate worse than the LOS D threshold maintained by the City of Pacifica, but would operate substantially better
than if no improvements were made. Option A would improve AM peak hour travel times by over 40 percent. In
general, Option A would offer strong improvements to traffic operations, but by year 2035, traffic conditions may
be similar to today's conditions due to regional traffic growth. The overall average network wide delay would be
78 seconds of delay per vehicle in the AM peak hour, compared to 224 seconds per vehicle under No Build
conditions, a decrease of 65 percent.




                                                                                                              28
State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
June 2008




                                         Table 10: Intersection Levels of Service
                                                  Year 2035 Conditions


                                                                  AM Peak Hour                 PM Peak Hour
                                              Traffic                         Peak                         Peak
                Intersection
                                              Control                         Hour                         Hour
                                                          Delay       LOS    Demand
                                                                                       Delay       LOS    Demand
                                                                             Served                       Served

        SR1 & Reina del Mar (No Build)         Signal      70          E         77%   251          F         77%


        SR1 & Reina del Mar (Option A)         Signal      69          E         93%    53          D         93%


        SR1 & Reina del Mar (Option B)         Signal      64          E         93%    47          D         93%

       SR1 East Ramps & Reina del Mar
                                                Stop       40          E         88%    20          C         89%
                 (Option C)

       SR1 West Ramps & Reina del Mar
                                                Stop       11          B         94%    21          C         98%
                 (Option C)




       SR1 & Fassler Avenue (No Build)         Signal     389          F         75%   112          F         78%


       SR1 & Fassler Avenue (Option A)         Signal      90          F         93%    73          E         93%


       SR1 & Fassler Avenue (Option B)         Signal      87          F         93%    71          E         93%


       SR1 & Fassler Avenue (Option C)         Signal     111          F         93%    47          D         94%

  Source: Fehr & Peers, January 2008




                                                                                                                    29
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




                                            Table 11: SR1 Travel Times and Queues
                                                     Year 2035 Conditions


                                                Average Reina Maximum Reina    Average                         Maximum
                            Travel Time         del Mar Queue del Mar Queue Fassler Queue                    Fassler Queue
                                       1
                             (minutes)               (feet)        (feet)       (feet)                           (feet)
                                                   AM Peak Hour - Northbound
                                       3
          No Build              12.6                 1,095               2,804                 4,946              9,2133
          Option A               4.5                  858                2,940                 293                 1,141
          Option B               4.4                  709                2,866                 277                 1,142
                                                            2                 2
          Option C               3.3                  n/a                 n/a                  539                 1,894
                                                   PM Peak Hour - Southbound
                                       3
          No Build              15.4                 6,907              11,5753                2,567               3,210
          Option A               4.2                  334                2,600                 736                 2,693
          Option B               4.2                  340                2,826                 662                 2,727
                                                            2                 2
          Option C               3.5                  n/a                 n/a                  308                 2,055
          Source: Fehr & Peers, January 2008.
          1. Travel times measured from just north of Crespi Drive to just north of Reina del Mar Avenue (for AM Northbound, a
                  distance of 1.6 miles), and from about 1.8 miles north of Reina del Mar Avenue to just south of Fassler Avenue
                  (for PM Southbound, a distance of 2.5 miles).
          2. Because there is no longer an intersection, there are no queues under Option C.
          3. Queue extends beyond model limits. Length increased to estimate full queue length by adding 25 feet per unserved
                 vehicle. Travel time increased by assuming 9 mph average speed in queue.




PM Peak Period

Option A also provides substantial improvements in service during the PM peak hour. The southbound left-turn
movement at Fassler Avenue will experience congestion, but queues will not spill back to the intersection with
Reina del Mar Avenue. Queues for the southbound left turn movement from SR 1 at Fassler Avenue would not
interfere with through traffic.

Travel times in the PM peak hour would be substantially improved in year 2035 under Option A, even compared
to existing conditions. The overall average network wide delay would be 62 seconds of delay per vehicle in the
PM peak hour, compared to 181 seconds per vehicle under No Build conditions, a decrease of 66 percent.


While the southbound left turn pocket at Reina del Mar Avenue is not expected to see an increase in demand
over existing volumes, an analysis was performed to determine if the existing 500-foot turn pocket would be
adequate in the future. The VISSIM application can only report average and maximum queue lengths; however,
transportation facilities are usually sized based on the 95th percentile queue length. As a supplement to the
VISSIM analysis results, the southbound let-turn pocket was analyzed in Synchro, which presents queue lengths
for the 95th percentile.



                                                                                                                                   30
 State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
 June 2008




The analysis revealed that the southbound left turn queue would have a 95th percentile queue length of 677 feet.
Thus, the left turn pocket should be extended to 675 feet. The supplemental Synchro queue analysis is
presented in the appendix.



Option B--Roadway Widening + Pedestrian Overcrossing Alternative

This alternative is the same as Option A, except that a pedestrian overcrossing would be installed at the
intersection of Reina del Mar Avenue and SR1. This would eliminate the pedestrian signal phase across SR 1 at
this intersection, which would allow more green time for the northbound and southbound vehicular through
movements on SR1.

AM Peak Period

Similar to findings for Option B in year 2015 conditions, there is little marginal benefit to adding the pedestrian
overcrossing across SR 1 in year 2035 conditions to the improvements included in Option A. Overall average
network wide delay would be 75 seconds of delay per vehicle in the AM peak hour, compared to 224 seconds
under No Build conditions, a decrease of 67 percent.

PM Peak Period

Similar to the AM peak period analysis, construction of the pedestrian overcrossing offers few additional benefits
to the improvements associated with Option A. The overall average network wide delay would be 59 seconds per
vehicle, compared to 181 seconds per vehicle under No Build conditions, a decrease of 67 percent.

Option CGrade Separation Alternative

This scenario assumes the construction of a grade-separated intersection at Reina del Mar Avenue and SR1. A
tight diamond interchange would be built for access to Reina del Mar Avenue. This would have the benefit of the
removal of the traffic signal for northbound and southbound traffic, which is a key bottleneck.

AM Peak Period

Similar to the year 2015 analysis, Option C would provide the most substantial benefit in terms of the overall
percentage of traffic demand served, travel times, and queuing. Elimination of the bottleneck at the SR 1 / Reina
del Mar Avenue intersection would improve travel times by nearly 60 percent (or nearly five minutes) compared to
No Build conditions. The intersection of SR 1 and Fassler Avenue would still operate at LOS F, but would serve
nearly all expected traffic demand, which is an improvement compared to the No Build alternative, which would
only serve 75 percent of the travel demand. Overall average network wide delay would be 91 seconds of delay
per vehicle in the AM peak hour, compared to 224 seconds under No Build conditions, a decrease of 59 percent.

PM Peak Period

While the Reina del Mar interchange has been eliminated, this alternative still experiences some congestion in the
PM peak period due to the heavy left-turn volume from southbound SR1 to Fassler Avenue. However, left-turn
queues would remain confined to the long southbound left turn pocket, and would not interfere with the
southbound through traffic. Queues on southbound SR 1 from the Fassler Avenue intersection would not reach
the Reina del Mar interchange. Overall average network wide delay would be 41 seconds of delay per vehicle in
the PM peak hour, compared to 181 seconds under No Build conditions, a decrease of 77 percent.


                                                                                                                31
State Route 1 / Calera Parkway Project ­ Final Traffic Operations Report
June 2008




                                        APPENDIX A:
                                LOS CALCULATION WORKSHEET




                                                                           32
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                  Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                                       Existing Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                             AM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn        7           6     85.7%     192.9      36.0       F
                  Through        2480         2378   95.9%     66.1       4.3        E
         NB
                  Right Turn      176         128    72.7%     71.6       6.3        E
                  Subtotal       2663         2512   94.3%     66.7       4.4        E
                  Left Turn      138          122    88.4%     167.0      22.1       F
                  Through        1037         1009   97.3%     10.7       0.6        B
         SB
                  Right Turn      44           42    95.5%      9.4       2.2        A
                  Subtotal       1219         1173   96.2%     27.1       3.8        C
                  Left Turn       5           5      100.0%    127.8      44.8       F
                  Through         33          30     90.9%     119.9      18.8       F
         EB
                  Right Turn      2           1      50.0%     73.6       92.0       E
                  Subtotal        40          36      90.0%    117.9      13.3       F
                Left Turn         122         102    83.6%     237.9      36.0       F
                Through
         WB
                Right Turn       292          260    89.0%     156.3      17.4       F
                Subtotal         414          362    87.4%     179.8      12.9       F
               Total             4336         4083   94.2%     65.8       2.5        E



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                      Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn        4           5     125.0%    212.5     129.9       F
                  Through        1708         1592   93.2%     178.8     89.3        F
         NB
                  Right Turn      10           4     40.0%     159.4     109.5       F
                  Subtotal       1722         1601    93.0%    178.9     89.3        F
                  Left Turn      434          419    96.5%     78.7       4.3        E
                  Through        687          641    93.3%     10.9       1.4        B
         SB
                  Right Turn      40           37    92.5%     4.5        1.4        A
                  Subtotal       1161         1097   94.5%     36.6       1.8        D
                  Left Turn       41          42     102.4%    85.1       14.2       F
                  Through         15          15     100.0%    85.8       14.4       F
         EB
                  Right Turn      2           2      100.0%    19.1       41.6       B
                  Subtotal        58          59     101.7%    83.5       14.1       F
                Left Turn         21           19    90.5%     472.4     106.5       F
                Through           7            6     85.7%     466.8     114.1       F
         WB
                Right Turn       914          878    96.1%     426.8     94.1        F
                Subtotal         942          903    95.9%     428.0     94.5        F
               Total             3883         3660   94.3%     194.6     20.6        F




Fehr & Peers                                                                               5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                             Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                                  Existing Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                        AM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                         Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)   Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.   Storage?
               Left Turn       250            5          1          43         10         NO
     NB        Through        3000          1031         98        2805        6          NO
               Right Turn      100           97          2         390         9          MAX
               Left Turn       500           136         31        428         89         NO
     SB        Through        3600            28         2         383         48         NO
               Right Turn       0             28         2         383         48         AVG
               Left Turn        0             24         4         202         35         AVG
     EB        Through         150            59         68        203         35         MAX
               Right Turn       0             30         4         236         35         AVG
               Left Turn        0            182         37        619        121         AVG
     WB        Through          0             8          1          68         16         AVG
               Right Turn     1000           326         49        1031        62         MAX



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                               Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)   Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.   Storage?
               Left Turn       200            2           1         35         11         NO
     NB        Through        3800          1535        1080       3260       1232        NO
               Right Turn      100           0           0          35         24         NO
               Left Turn       400          108          11        480        144         MAX
     SB        Through        3000           17          3         236         36         NO
               Right Turn      100           0           0          39         12         NO
               Left Turn        0            26           5        143         27         AVG
     EB        Through         100           26          5         143         27         MAX
               Right Turn      50            0            0         12         10         NO
               Left Turn       100           89         234        410        1018        MAX
     WB        Through          0            89         234        410        1018        AVG
               Right Turn     4700          2048        479        2881       651         NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                  Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                                       Existing Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                             PM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       11           9      81.8%    138.5      21.6       F
                  Through        1330         1333   100.2%    20.4       2.2        C
         NB
                  Right Turn      79           64    81.0%     19.4       4.0        B
                  Subtotal       1420         1406    99.0%    21.2       2.3        C
                  Left Turn      244          201    82.4%     346.6      45.9       F
                  Through        2594         2150    82.9%    201.8      55.0       F
         SB
                  Right Turn      5            5     100.0%    158.9      99.3       F
                  Subtotal       2843         2356    82.9%    214.1      53.0       F
                  Left Turn       3           4      133.3%    121.6      32.3       F
                  Through         4           3      75.0%     94.8       55.0       F
         EB
                  Right Turn      4           3      75.0%     149.4      93.3       F
                  Subtotal        11          10      90.9%    119.2      31.6       F
                Left Turn         75           74    98.7%     149.7      18.7       F
                Through           4            4     100.0%    156.9      34.2       F
         WB
                Right Turn       110          114    103.6%    10.0       1.3        A
                Subtotal         189          192    101.6%    67.2       11.2       E
               Total             4463         3964    88.8%    138.1      30.3       F



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                      Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       25           17    68.0%     73.3       11.9       E
                  Through        1016         1004   98.8%     27.9       1.8        C
         NB
                  Right Turn      15           10    66.7%     11.5       3.0        B
                  Subtotal       1056         1031   97.6%     28.5       1.8        C
                  Left Turn      956          805    84.2%     236.3      11.1       F
                  Through        1674         1332   79.6%     149.3      10.7       F
         SB
                  Right Turn      43           34    79.1%     144.3      14.4       F
                  Subtotal       2673         2171   81.2%     181.5      11.4       F
                  Left Turn       65          65     100.0%    76.0       7.6        E
                  Through         22          22     100.0%    79.1       16.0       E
         EB
                  Right Turn      46          48     104.3%    23.9       4.5        C
                  Subtotal        133         135    101.5%    58.1       7.4        E
                Left Turn         48           49    102.1%    67.0       6.3        E
                Through           15           13    86.7%     79.0       8.3        E
         WB
                Right Turn       339          338    99.7%      4.8       0.5        A
                Subtotal         402          400     99.5%    14.9       1.5        B
               Total             4264         3737    87.6%    116.9      5.9        F




Fehr & Peers                                                                               5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                             Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                                  Existing Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                        PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                         Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)   Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.   Storage?
               Left Turn       250           6            2         54         14         NO
     NB        Through        3000           66           5        385         4          NO
               Right Turn      100           13           5        373         93         MAX
               Left Turn       500          1580        1255       5174       3363        AVG
     SB        Through        3600          2929        773        7685       1161        MAX
               Right Turn       0           2929        773        7685       1161        AVG
               Left Turn        0             3          1          47          9         AVG
     EB        Through         150           3           1          47          9         NO
               Right Turn       0            6           3          80          9         AVG
               Left Turn        0            64          13        236         47         AVG
     WB        Through          0            64          13        236         47         AVG
               Right Turn     1000           5           1         107         35         NO



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                               Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)   Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.   Storage?
               Left Turn       200           6            2         46         12         NO
     NB        Through        3800           66           5        400         37         NO
               Right Turn      100           0            0         45         16         NO
               Left Turn       400          2478         106       3206        6          AVG
     SB        Through        3000           18           5        276         37         NO
               Right Turn      100           0            0         29         10         NO
               Left Turn        0            41           6        202         29         AVG
     EB        Through         100           41           6        202         29         MAX
               Right Turn      50            2            1         79         41         MAX
               Left Turn       100           24           3        132         18         MAX
     WB        Through          0            24           3        132         18         AVG
               Right Turn     4700           5            0         76         19         NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                     Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                                     2015 No Build Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                               AM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                   Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn        7           8     114.3%    201.8        22.1        F
                  Through        2571         2342   91.1%     67.5         3.2         E
         NB
                  Right Turn      177         125    70.6%     72.3         4.6         E
                  Subtotal       2755         2475    89.8%    70.3         3.1         E
                  Left Turn      139          123    88.5%     162.9        19.7        F
                  Through        1109         1079   97.3%     14.3         1.1         B
         SB
                  Right Turn      44           42    95.5%     15.2         4.8         B
                  Subtotal       1292         1244   96.3%     29.1         3.4         C
                  Left Turn       5           4      80.0%     136.4        37.2        F
                  Through         33          26     78.8%     123.8        22.9        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      2           1      50.0%     76.4         79.1        E
                  Subtotal        40          31     77.5%     124.2        21.0        F
                Left Turn        123          103    83.7%     253.2        35.1        F
                Through           1            1     100.0%     0.0         0.0         A
         WB
                Right Turn       295          264    89.5%     154.8        26.0        F
                Subtotal         419          368     87.8%    183.2        19.6        F
               Total             4506         4118    91.4%    68.4         2.4         E



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                         Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       17           13    76.5%     401.5        68.2        F
                  Through        1719         1584   92.1%     428.8        47.0        F
         NB
                  Right Turn      11           8     72.7%     361.4        73.2        F
                  Subtotal       1747         1605   91.9%     428.3        47.0        F
                  Left Turn      455          439    96.5%     82.6          6.9        F
                  Through        719          677    94.2%     12.5          1.7        B
         SB
                  Right Turn      60           52    86.7%     6.7           2.5        A
                  Subtotal       1234         1168   94.7%     38.6          3.2        D
                  Left Turn       56          53     94.6%     93.2         16.8        F
                  Through         17          16     94.1%     87.9         15.0        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      8           9      112.5%    24.7         11.2        C
                  Subtotal        81          78      96.3%    84.8         16.1        F
                Left Turn         24           20    83.3%     674.8        100.2       F
                Through           12           9     75.0%     665.9        127.3       F
         WB
                Right Turn       980          869    88.7%     618.1        96.5        F
                Subtotal         1016         898    88.4%     619.7        96.3        F
               Total             4078         3749   91.9%     344.7        12.2        F




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                             Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                             2015 No Build Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                       AM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                          Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)    Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.    Storage?
               Left Turn       250           44          10        247         8          NO
     NB        Through        3000          1074         88        2804        8          NO
               Right Turn      100           97          2         390         6          MAX
               Left Turn       500           133         30        415         97         NO
     SB        Through        3600            45         4         508         81         NO
               Right Turn       0             45         4         508         81         AVG
               Left Turn        0             20         4         180         33         AVG
     EB        Through         150            52         59        180         33         MAX
               Right Turn       0             29         6         213         33         AVG
               Left Turn        0            197         41        639        136         AVG
     WB        Through          0            197         41        639        136         AVG
               Right Turn     1000           335         62        1028        92         MAX



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)    Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.    Storage?
               Left Turn       200            5           2         57         17         NO
     NB        Through        3800          4361         315       5305        6          AVG
               Right Turn      100           0            0         25         30         NO
               Left Turn       400          120           19       552        199         MAX
     SB        Through        3000           20           4        302        116         NO
               Right Turn      100           0            0         39         16         NO
               Left Turn        0            37           8        169         27         AVG
     EB        Through         100           37           8        169         27         MAX
               Right Turn      50            0            0         19         11         NO
               Left Turn       100           16           3         88         30         NO
     WB        Through          0            16           3         88         30         AVG
               Right Turn     4700          3417         514       4719       671         MAX




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                     Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                                     2015 No Build Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                               PM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                   Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       11           9     81.8%     140.1        25.3        F
                  Through        1436         1432   99.7%     20.5         1.9         C
         NB
                  Right Turn      80           70    87.5%     18.9         3.7         B
                  Subtotal       1527         1511   99.0%     21.1         2.0         C
                  Left Turn      246          191    77.6%     443.2        50.5        F
                  Through        2706         2107   77.9%     321.9         50.0       F
         SB
                  Right Turn      5            4     80.0%     222.0        123.0       F
                  Subtotal       2957         2302   77.8%     332.0         48.7       F
                  Left Turn       3           4      133.3%    118.8        42.1        F
                  Through         4           3      75.0%     100.7        57.5        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      4           3      75.0%     174.5        110.0       F
                  Subtotal        11          10      90.9%    128.2        44.6        F
                Left Turn         75           72    96.0%     157.0        23.4        F
                Through           4            4     100.0%    150.7        43.3        F
         WB
                Right Turn       112          115    102.7%    11.2         1.9         B
                Subtotal         191          191    100.0%    69.7         14.5        E
               Total             4686         4014    85.7%    201.8        27.0        F



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                         Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       34           24    70.6%     75.1          4.0        E
                  Through        1062         1061   99.9%     29.0          2.0        C
         NB
                  Right Turn      18           13    72.2%     15.4          3.6        B
                  Subtotal       1114         1098   98.6%     29.8          2.0        C
                  Left Turn      1022         790    77.3%     250.7        11.2        F
                  Through        1678         1298   77.4%     162.8         9.6        F
         SB
                  Right Turn      85           48    56.5%     156.3        16.7        F
                  Subtotal       2785         2136   76.7%     195.1        11.0        F
                  Left Turn       86          82     95.3%     126.0        28.0        F
                  Through         52          52     100.0%    125.9        29.7        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      37          39     105.4%    69.6         16.6        E
                  Subtotal        175         173     98.9%    113.1        24.9        F
                Left Turn         51           50    98.0%     70.2         5.1         E
                Through           18           16    88.9%     72.4         12.1        E
         WB
                Right Turn       379          362    95.5%      5.6         0.7         A
                Subtotal         448          428    95.5%     15.7         1.4         B
               Total             4522         3835   84.8%     124.0         4.7        F




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                             Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                             2015 No Build Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                       PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                          Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)    Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.    Storage?
               Left Turn       250           7            2         52         11         NO
     NB        Through        3000           67           7        389         8          NO
               Right Turn      100           19           5        430        121         MAX
               Left Turn       500          1781        1890       4987       4797        AVG
     SB        Through        3600          4893        618        9549        9          AVG
               Right Turn       0           4893        618        9549        9          AVG
               Left Turn        0             3          1          47          9         AVG
     EB        Through         150           3           1          47         9          NO
               Right Turn       0            6           2          80          9         AVG
               Left Turn        0            65          14        233         58         AVG
     WB        Through          0            65          14        233         58         AVG
               Right Turn     1000           6           1         123         40         NO



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)    Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.    Storage?
               Left Turn       200           9            1         72         10         NO
     NB        Through        3800           75           7        463         62         NO
               Right Turn      100           0            0         54         10         NO
               Left Turn       400          2627          76       3207        6          AVG
     SB        Through        3000          241          702       573        930         NO
               Right Turn      100           0            0         33         12         NO
               Left Turn        0           118           27       377         89         AVG
     EB        Through         100          118           27       377         89         AVG
               Right Turn      50            6            6        196        127         MAX
               Left Turn       100           25           4        136         20         MAX
     WB        Through          0            25           4        136         20         AVG
               Right Turn     4700           6            1         85         19         NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                   Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                             2015 3 Lane Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                             AM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn        7           8     114.3%    206.7      17.3        F
                  Through        2571         2843   110.6%    45.3       4.1         D
         NB
                  Right Turn      177         148    83.6%     44.7       6.2         D
                  Subtotal       2755         2999   108.9%    48.2       4.4         D
                  Left Turn      139          124    89.2%     170.5      25.4        F
                  Through        1109         1087   98.0%     17.4       1.5         B
         SB
                  Right Turn      44           42    95.5%     13.7       3.2         B
                  Subtotal       1292         1253   97.0%     32.5       3.9         C
                  Left Turn       5           4      80.0%     116.9      36.1        F
                  Through         33          25     75.8%     127.4      22.3        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      2           1      50.0%     28.4       32.3        C
                  Subtotal        40          30     75.0%     122.8      19.6        F
                Left Turn        123          112    91.1%     164.4      14.0        F
                Through           1            1     100.0%     0.0       0.0         A
         WB
                Right Turn       295          280    94.9%     105.0      11.8        F
                Subtotal         419          393     93.8%    122.1      7.6         F
               Total             4506         4675   103.8%    50.7       3.6         D



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                      Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       17           15     88.2%    118.2      12.5        F
                  Through        1719         1963   114.2%    82.6       11.6        F
         NB
                  Right Turn      11           8      72.7%    44.1       12.2        D
                  Subtotal       1747         1986   113.7%    82.7       11.6        F
                  Left Turn      455          435    95.6%     86.7       9.7         F
                  Through        719          690    96.0%     12.5       1.8         B
         SB
                  Right Turn      60           53    88.3%     6.4        1.9         A
                  Subtotal       1234         1178   95.5%     39.6       3.0         D
                  Left Turn       56          53     94.6%     84.0       13.4        F
                  Through         17          16     94.1%     78.5       10.3        E
         EB
                  Right Turn      8           9      112.5%    6.7        0.5         A
                  Subtotal        81          78      96.3%    74.5       12.1        E
                Left Turn         24           26    108.3%    78.9       6.9         E
                Through           12           11    91.7%     85.0       16.2        F
         WB
                Right Turn       980          1001   102.1%    36.2       2.5         D
                Subtotal         1016         1038   102.2%    37.8       2.4         D
               Total             4078         4280   105.0%    59.8       5.3         E




Fehr & Peers                                                                               5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                              Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                        2015 3 Lane Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                        AM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                           Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)    Exceeds
  Direction     Movement       (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.    Storage?
               Left Turn       250            77         37         620      726          MAX
     NB        Through        3000           446         56        2312      297           NO
               Right Turn      100           390         74        2254      364          AVG
               Left Turn       500           139         34         451       87           NO
     SB        Through        3600            38          4         357       68           NO
               Right Turn       0             38          4         357       68          AVG
               Left Turn        0             20          4         174       28          AVG
     EB        Through         150            52         61         172       28          MAX
               Right Turn       0             5           4         187       31          AVG
               Left Turn        0            125         12         439       70          AVG
     WB        Through          0            125         12         439       70          AVG
               Right Turn     1000           223         33         919      200           NO



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                 Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)    Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.    Storage?
               Left Turn       200            6          2          57          10         NO
     NB        Through        3800           142         9         876          86         NO
               Right Turn      100            0          0          34          18         NO
               Left Turn      3000           124         20        617         150         NO
     SB        Through        3000            23         4         344          92         NO
               Right Turn      100            0          0          46          18         NO
               Left Turn        0             33         6         160          24         AVG
     EB        Through         100            33         6         160          24         MAX
               Right Turn      200            0          0          34          7          NO
               Left Turn       100            13         2         122          66         MAX
     WB        Through          0             13         2         122          66         AVG
               Right Turn     4700           116         12        611         134         NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                 5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                    Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                             2015 3 Lanes Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                              PM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                  Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       11           9      81.8%     145.7      22.9        F
                  Through        1436         1457   101.5%     31.4       5.4         C
         NB
                  Right Turn      80           70    87.5%      32.7       10.6        C
                  Subtotal       1527         1536   100.6%     32.1       5.6         C
                  Left Turn      246          241     98.0%     151.8      19.2        F
                  Through        2706         2705   100.0%     21.7       1.5         C
         SB
                  Right Turn      5            4      80.0%     16.9       9.5         B
                  Subtotal       2957         2950    99.8%     32.3       2.6         C
                  Left Turn       3           4      133.3%     117.8      41.6        F
                  Through         4           3      75.0%      97.6       36.3        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      4           3      75.0%      43.9       22.6        D
                  Subtotal        11          10      90.9%     91.3       24.0        F
                Left Turn         75           73    97.3%      125.5      10.1        F
                Through           4            4     100.0%     138.8      35.8        F
         WB
                Right Turn       112          115    102.7%     16.8       2.0         B
                Subtotal         191          192    100.5%     60.5       7.0         E
               Total             4686         4688   100.0%     33.5       2.9         C



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                        Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       34           24     70.6%     72.3       4.5         E
                  Through        1062         1079   101.6%     57.3       4.9         E
         NB
                  Right Turn      18           13    72.2%      32.8       6.3         C
                  Subtotal       1114         1116   100.2%     57.3       4.7         E
                  Left Turn      1022         1021   99.9%      102.4      20.6        F
                  Through        1678         1697   101.1%     32.8       6.9         C
         SB
                  Right Turn      85           59    69.4%      28.0       7.1         C
                  Subtotal       2785         2777    99.7%     58.3       12.2        E
                  Left Turn       86          81     94.2%      67.9       7.7         E
                  Through         52          51     98.1%      65.0       7.7         E
         EB
                  Right Turn      37          39     105.4%     6.8        0.4         A
                  Subtotal        175         171     97.7%     53.2       6.4         D
                Left Turn         51           51    100.0%     62.2       9.2         E
                Through           18           17    94.4%      71.6       9.2         E
         WB
                Right Turn       379          373    98.4%      8.1        0.6         A
                Subtotal         448          441     98.4%     16.7       1.3         B
               Total             4522         4505    99.6%     53.8       7.9         D




Fehr & Peers                                                                               5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                              Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                       2015 3 Lanes Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                        PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                           Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)     Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.     Storage?
               Left Turn       250            7          2          54          11         NO
     NB        Through        3000           104         20        568          98         NO
               Right Turn      100           102         21        387          8          AVG
               Left Turn       500           241         48        885         156         MAX
     SB        Through        3600           109         15        951         146         NO
               Right Turn       0            109         15        951         146         AVG
               Left Turn        0             4          1          44          1          AVG
     EB        Through         150            3          2          44          1          NO
               Right Turn       0             4          3          81          0          AVG
               Left Turn        0             59         9         234          53         AVG
     WB        Through          0             59         9         234          53         AVG
               Right Turn     1000            14         2         144          40         NO



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                 Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)     Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.     Storage?
               Left Turn       200            8           1         69          14         NO
     NB        Through        3800           125          12       431          40         NO
               Right Turn      100            1           1         53          9          NO
               Left Turn      3000           570         215       2475        698         NO
     SB        Through        3000           448         215       2400        646         NO
               Right Turn      100            0           0         31          9          NO
               Left Turn        0             51          8        201          36         AVG
     EB        Through         100            51          8        201          36         MAX
               Right Turn      200            1           0         47          13         NO
               Left Turn       100            24          3        126          20         MAX
     WB        Through          0             24          3        126          20         AVG
               Right Turn     4700            9           1        101          21         NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                 5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                  Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                        2015 3 Lane+POC Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                            AM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn        7           8     114.3%    188.6      15.3       F
                  Through        2571         2832   110.2%    42.8       4.3        D
         NB
                  Right Turn      177         147    83.1%     41.6       4.0        D
                  Subtotal       2755         2987   108.4%    45.4       4.3        D
                  Left Turn      139          123    88.5%     171.6      20.9       F
                  Through        1109         1077   97.1%     16.2       1.4        B
         SB
                  Right Turn      44           42    95.5%     16.1       2.7        B
                  Subtotal       1292         1242   96.1%     31.6       3.0        C
                  Left Turn       5           4      80.0%     119.3      42.1       F
                  Through         33          25     75.8%     128.7      14.6       F
         EB
                  Right Turn      2           1      50.0%     80.6       67.9       F
                  Subtotal        40          30     75.0%     126.9      14.7       F
                Left Turn        123          117    95.1%     164.0      16.1       F
                Through           1            1     100.0%     0.0       0.0        A
         WB
                Right Turn       295          283    95.9%     110.0      13.0       F
                Subtotal         419          401     95.7%    125.9      10.5       F
               Total             4506         4660   103.4%    49.1       2.8        D



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                      Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       17           15     88.2%    117.0      21.8       F
                  Through        1719         1963   114.2%    81.1       10.9       F
         NB
                  Right Turn      11           8      72.7%    35.9        4.2       D
                  Subtotal       1747         1986   113.7%    81.1       10.8       F
                  Left Turn      455          436    95.8%     80.6       7.1        F
                  Through        719          686    95.4%     11.4       1.2        B
         SB
                  Right Turn      60           53    88.3%     5.5        1.4        A
                  Subtotal       1234         1175   95.2%     36.9       2.8        D
                  Left Turn       56          54     96.4%     89.5       15.4       F
                  Through         17          16     94.1%     95.3       15.2       F
         EB
                  Right Turn      8           9      112.5%    6.1        0.8        A
                  Subtotal        81          79      97.5%    81.8       12.9       F
                Left Turn         24           25    104.2%    83.2       15.5       F
                Through           12           10    83.3%     74.8       14.9       E
         WB
                Right Turn       980          1002   102.2%    37.3       1.9        D
                Subtotal         1016         1037   102.1%    38.8       2.0        D
               Total             4078         4277   104.9%    58.7       5.1        E




Fehr & Peers                                                                               5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                               Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                     2015 3 Lane+POC Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                         AM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                            Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)     Maximum Queue (ft)     Exceeds
  Direction     Movement       (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.    Average  Std. Dev.     Storage?
               Left Turn       250            82         36          924      841           MAX
     NB        Through        3000           404         49         2103      179            NO
               Right Turn      100           311         69         2055      244           AVG
               Left Turn       500           139         33          432      100            NO
     SB        Through        3600            35          3          360       41            NO
               Right Turn       0             35          3          360       41           AVG
               Left Turn        0             22          3          178       34           AVG
     EB        Through         150            52         58          177       34           MAX
               Right Turn       0             28          6          197       33           AVG
               Left Turn        0            124         18          461       71           AVG
     WB        Through          0            124         18          461       71           AVG
               Right Turn     1000           230         32          885      100            NO



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                  Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)     Maximum Queue (ft)     Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.    Average  Std. Dev.     Storage?
               Left Turn       200            7          2            62          11        NO
     NB        Through        3800           132         11          830          91        NO
               Right Turn      100            0          0            38          15        NO
               Left Turn      3000           115         16          532         146        NO
     SB        Through        3000            20         3           313          64        NO
               Right Turn      100            0          0            54          31        NO
               Left Turn        0             36         6           157          21        AVG
     EB        Through         100            36         6           157          21        MAX
               Right Turn      200            0          0            31          1         NO
               Left Turn       100            14         3           104          26        MAX
     WB        Through          0             14         3           104          26        AVG
               Right Turn     4700           120         8           620         103        NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                  5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                  Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                        2015 3 Lane+POC Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                            PM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       11           9      81.8%    115.1      32.8       F
                  Through        1436         1453   101.2%    21.6       4.0        C
         NB
                  Right Turn      80           70    87.5%     21.1       3.7        C
                  Subtotal       1527         1532   100.3%    22.1       3.9        C
                  Left Turn      246          244     99.2%    127.4      17.2       F
                  Through        2706         2706   100.0%    13.6       1.7        B
         SB
                  Right Turn      5            4      80.0%    12.6       6.0        B
                  Subtotal       2957         2954    99.9%    23.0       2.4        C
                  Left Turn       3           4      133.3%    128.4      23.8       F
                  Through         4           3      75.0%     95.2       63.7       F
         EB
                  Right Turn      4           3      75.0%     37.6       30.4       D
                  Subtotal        11          10      90.9%    96.7       18.5       F
                Left Turn         75           74    98.7%     113.1      9.4        F
                Through           4            4     100.0%    107.9      42.5       F
         WB
                Right Turn       112          114    101.8%    14.2       1.4        B
                Subtotal         191          192    100.5%    54.0       5.5        D
               Total             4686         4688   100.0%    24.2       2.1        C



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                      Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       34           24     70.6%    69.7       4.9        E
                  Through        1062         1091   102.7%    56.2       4.4        E
         NB
                  Right Turn      18           13    72.2%     30.4       7.1        C
                  Subtotal       1114         1128   101.3%    56.1       4.3        E
                  Left Turn      1022         1017   99.5%     88.5       23.3       F
                  Through        1678         1697   101.1%    25.1       6.3        C
         SB
                  Right Turn      85           59    69.4%     20.8       8.0        C
                  Subtotal       2785         2773    99.6%    48.3       12.5       D
                  Left Turn       86          81     94.2%     67.3       6.9        E
                  Through         52          51     98.1%     68.7       7.9        E
         EB
                  Right Turn      37          39     105.4%    7.0        0.4        A
                  Subtotal        175         171     97.7%    54.0       5.1        D
                Left Turn         51           51    100.0%    59.7       8.7        E
                Through           18           17    94.4%     67.2       6.6        E
         WB
                Right Turn       379          373    98.4%     8.2        0.6        A
                Subtotal         448          441     98.4%    16.3       1.1        B
               Total             4522         4513    99.8%    47.4       8.5        D




Fehr & Peers                                                                               5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                               Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                     2015 3 Lane+POC Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                         PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                            Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)     Maximum Queue (ft)     Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.    Average  Std. Dev.     Storage?
               Left Turn       250           6           3            53         14         NO
     NB        Through        3000           66          14          568         98         NO
               Right Turn      100           60          17          387         8          MAX
               Left Turn       500           200         38          718         145        MAX
     SB        Through        3600            52         16          772         141        NO
               Right Turn       0             52         16          772         141        AVG
               Left Turn        0             4          1            51          10        AVG
     EB        Through         150            4          1            51          10        NO
               Right Turn       0             4          2            78          10        AVG
               Left Turn        0             52         8           220          38        AVG
     WB        Through          0             52         8           220          38        AVG
               Right Turn     1000            12         1           121          30        NO



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                  Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)     Maximum Queue (ft)     Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.    Average  Std. Dev.     Storage?
               Left Turn       200            8           2           76          21        NO
     NB        Through        3800           123          10         427          53        NO
               Right Turn      100            1           0           49          1         NO
               Left Turn      3000           429         209         2148        494        NO
     SB        Through        3000           319         206         2061        600        NO
               Right Turn      100            0           0           38          12        NO
               Left Turn        0             52          6          208          37        AVG
     EB        Through         100            52          6          208          37        MAX
               Right Turn      200            1           0           47          13        NO
               Left Turn       100            23          3          124          19        MAX
     WB        Through          0             23          3          124          19        AVG
               Right Turn     4700            9           1           96          10        NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                  5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                      Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                            2015 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                                AM Peak Hour

     Intersection 0            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                    Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served           Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %        Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         NB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         SB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         EB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                Left Turn
                Through
         WB
                Right Turn
                Subtotal
               Total



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                          Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served           Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %        Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       17           15     88.2%       120.2      13.8        F
                  Through        1719         1975   114.9%       85.1       9.2         F
         NB
                  Right Turn      11           8      72.7%       51.1       17.8        D
                  Subtotal       1747         1998   114.4%       85.2       9.2         F
                  Left Turn      455          447    98.2%        72.8       2.9         E
                  Through        719          702    97.6%        12.2       1.1         B
         SB
                  Right Turn      60           53    88.3%        4.6        1.1         A
                  Subtotal       1234         1202   97.4%        34.4       1.6         C
                  Left Turn       56          53     94.6%        95.1       11.1        F
                  Through         17          16     94.1%        101.4      19.8        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      8           9      112.5%        2.7       0.3         A
                  Subtotal        81          78      96.3%       86.5       11.0        F
                Left Turn         24           25    104.2%       68.2       10.5        E
                Through           12           11    91.7%        87.4       19.6        F
         WB
                Right Turn       980          1001   102.1%       40.2       2.6         D
                Subtotal         1016         1037   102.1%       41.4       2.6         D
               Total             4078         4315   105.8%       60.5       4.0         E




Fehr & Peers                                                                                 5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                       Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                             2015 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                                 AM Peak Hour

     Intersection 3            East Ramps                                           Unsignalized

                               Demand         Volume Served          Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement    Volume       Average      %       Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       7            8      114.3%       34.4       2.9         D
                  Through
         NB
                  Right Turn     177          146     82.5%        32.8       1.9         D
                  Subtotal       184          154     83.7%        33.2       1.8         D
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         SB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn       5            4      80.0%         1.2       1.0         A
                  Through        172          157     91.3%         0.7       0.1         A
         EB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal       177          161     91.0%         0.8       0.1         A
                Left Turn
                Through          124          125     100.8%        0.8       0.1         A
         WB
                Right Turn       295          298     101.0%        2.2       0.1         A
                Subtotal         419          423     101.0%        1.8       0.1         A
               Total             780          738      94.6%        9.6       0.7         A



     Intersection 4            West Ramps                                           Unsignalized

                               Demand         Volume Served          Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement    Volume       Average      %       Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         NB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn      139          129     92.8%        10.7       0.7         B
                  Through
         SB
                  Right Turn     44           42      95.5%        10.5       0.8         B
                  Subtotal       183          171     93.4%        10.6       0.6         B
                  Left Turn
                  Through         33          33      100.0%        0.0       0.0         A
         EB
                  Right Turn      2           1       50.0%         0.6       0.5         A
                  Subtotal        35          34       97.1%        0.0       0.0         A
                Left Turn        123          124     100.8%        0.7       0.1         A
                Through          63           55      87.3%         0.4       0.1         A
         WB
                Right Turn
                Subtotal         186          179     96.2%         0.6       0.1         A
               Total             404          384     95.0%         5.0       0.4         A




Fehr & Peers                                                                                  5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                               Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                     2015 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                         AM Peak Hour

 Intersection 0             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                            Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction     Movement       (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn       250
     NB        Through        3000
               Right Turn      100
               Left Turn       500
     SB        Through        2700
               Right Turn       0
               Left Turn        0
     EB        Through         150
               Right Turn       0
               Left Turn       100
     WB        Through         100
               Right Turn     1000



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                  Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn       200            6          1           56          9          NO
     NB        Through        3800           157         15         823          76         NO
               Right Turn      100            0          0           40          17         NO
               Left Turn      3000           107         10         429         103         NO
     SB        Through        3000            23         3          262          70         NO
               Right Turn      100            0          0           35          13         NO
               Left Turn        0             39         5          169          31         AVG
     EB        Through         100            39         5          169          31         MAX
               Right Turn      200            0          0           2           7          NO
               Left Turn       100            12         3          104          34         MAX
     WB        Through          0             12         3          104          34         AVG
               Right Turn     4700           128         12         658         125         NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                  5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                             Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                   2015 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                       AM Peak Hour

 Intersection 3             East Ramps                                               Unsignalized

                             Storage      Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)      Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn        0          18           3         217          43         AVG
     NB        Through          0          18           3         217          43         AVG
               Right Turn      500         17           3         217          43         NO
               Left Turn        0
     SB        Through          0
               Right Turn       0
               Left Turn        0           0           0          7           11         MAX
     EB        Through         200          0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn       0
               Left Turn        0
     WB        Through        1000          0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn     1000          0           0          0           0          NO



 Intersection 4             West Ramps                                               Unsignalized

                             Storage      Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)      Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn        0
     NB        Through          0
               Right Turn       0
               Left Turn       500          7           1          89          16         NO
     SB        Through          0           7           1          91          16         AVG
               Right Turn       0           7           1          90          16         AVG
               Left Turn        0
     EB        Through         150          0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn       0           0           0          0           0          NO
               Left Turn       200          0           0          22          9          NO
     WB        Through          0           0           0          3           8          MAX
               Right Turn       0




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                     Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                           2015 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                               PM Peak Hour

     Intersection 0            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                   Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served          Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %       Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         NB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         SB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         EB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                Left Turn
                Through
         WB
                Right Turn
                Subtotal
               Total



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                         Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served          Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %       Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       34           24     70.6%      65.8       6.8         E
                  Through        1062         1090   102.6%      45.2       4.4         D
         NB
                  Right Turn      18           13    72.2%       25.8       7.4         C
                  Subtotal       1114         1127   101.2%      45.4       4.3         D
                  Left Turn      1022         1027   100.5%      49.0       6.9         D
                  Through        1678         1700   101.3%      16.7       1.4         B
         SB
                  Right Turn      85           59    69.4%       11.4       1.5         B
                  Subtotal       2785         2786   100.0%      28.5       3.0         C
                  Left Turn       86          81     94.2%       61.7       8.0         E
                  Through         52          51     98.1%       60.7       7.5         E
         EB
                  Right Turn      37          39     105.4%      7.1        0.3         A
                  Subtotal        175         171     97.7%      49.1       6.1         D
                Left Turn         51           50    98.0%       59.8       4.4         E
                Through           18           17    94.4%       67.4       8.9         E
         WB
                Right Turn       379          372    98.2%       7.6        0.6         A
                Subtotal         448          439    98.0%       15.9       1.2         B
               Total             4522         4523   100.0%      32.3       2.5         C




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                       Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                             2015 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                                 PM Peak Hour

     Intersection 3            East Ramps                                           Unsignalized

                               Demand         Volume Served          Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement    Volume       Average      %       Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn      11           10      90.9%        17.8       5.0         C
                  Through
         NB
                  Right Turn      80          71      88.8%        17.3       1.5         C
                  Subtotal        91          81      89.0%        17.3       1.4         C
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         SB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn       3            4      133.3%        0.5       0.6         A
                  Through        250          250     100.0%        0.5       0.1         A
         EB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal       253          254     100.4%        0.5       0.1         A
                Left Turn
                Through          79           76      96.2%         0.3       0.1         A
         WB
                Right Turn       112          114     101.8%        0.9       0.1         A
                Subtotal         191          190      99.5%        0.7       0.1         A
               Total             535          525      98.1%        3.1       0.3         A



     Intersection 4            West Ramps                                           Unsignalized

                               Demand         Volume Served          Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement    Volume       Average      %       Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         NB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn      246          248     100.8%       17.2       1.1         C
                  Through
         SB
                  Right Turn      5            4      80.0%        18.6       4.2         C
                  Subtotal       251          252     100.4%       17.2       1.1         C
                  Left Turn
                  Through         7           8       114.3%        0.0       0.0         A
         EB
                  Right Turn      4           3       75.0%         0.9       0.3         A
                  Subtotal        11          11      100.0%        0.3       0.1         A
                Left Turn         75          72      96.0%         0.4       0.1         A
                Through           15          13      86.7%         0.3       0.1         A
         WB
                Right Turn
                Subtotal         90           85      94.4%        0.4        0.1         A
               Total             352          348     98.9%        12.5       1.0         B




Fehr & Peers                                                                                  5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                               Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                     2015 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                         PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 0             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                            Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn
     NB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn
     SB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn
     EB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn
     WB        Through
               Right Turn



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                  Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn       200            8          2           71          15         NO
     NB        Through        3800           103         11         388          39         NO
               Right Turn      100            1          0           50          0          NO
               Left Turn      3000           172         43         1219        398         NO
     SB        Through        3000            95         21         1102        399         NO
               Right Turn      100            0          0           32          10         NO
               Left Turn        0             46         7          201          39         AVG
     EB        Through         100            46         7          201          39         MAX
               Right Turn      200            1          0           39          13         NO
               Left Turn       100            23         3          121          15         MAX
     WB        Through          0             23         3          121          15         AVG
               Right Turn     4700            8          1           95          11         NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                  5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                             Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                   2015 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                       PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 3             East Ramps                                               Unsignalized

                             Storage      Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)      Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn        0           4           1         116          33         AVG
     NB        Through          0           4           1         117          33         AVG
               Right Turn      500          4           1         116          33         NO
               Left Turn
     SB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn        0           0           0          4           9          MAX
     EB        Through         200          0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn
               Left Turn
     WB        Through        1000          0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn     1000          0           0          0           0          NO



 Intersection 4             West Ramps                                               Unsignalized

                             Storage      Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)      Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn
     NB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn       500         13           2         157          31         NO
     SB        Through          0          14           2         159          31         AVG
               Right Turn       0          13           2         158          31         AVG
               Left Turn
     EB        Through         150          0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn       0           0           0          0           0          NO
               Left Turn       200          0           0          5           10         NO
     WB        Through          0           0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                     Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                                     2035 No Build Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                               AM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                   Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       89           59    66.3%     208.8        19.7        F
                  Through        3425         2341   68.4%      69.6         3.2        E
         NB
                  Right Turn      177         109    61.6%     73.9         4.3         E
                  Subtotal       3691         2509   68.0%      73.1         3.5        E
                  Left Turn      139          130    93.5%     173.9        20.5        F
                  Through        1263         1230   97.4%     16.2         2.0         B
         SB
                  Right Turn      56           52    92.9%     14.1         2.3         B
                  Subtotal       1458         1412   96.8%     30.8         2.5         C
                  Left Turn       18          11     61.1%     130.6        25.8        F
                  Through         33          23     69.7%     139.7        23.1        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      8           6      75.0%     109.1        46.1        F
                  Subtotal        59          40     67.8%     131.6        20.7        F
                Left Turn        123          105    85.4%     264.1        58.5        F
                Through           1            0     0.0%      248.5        41.5        F
         WB
                Right Turn       295          252    85.4%     162.7        32.7        F
                Subtotal         419          357    85.2%     193.7        31.8        F
               Total             5627         4318   76.7%      69.8         2.6        E



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                         Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       44           27    61.4%     477.6        36.2        F
                  Through        2564         1587   61.9%     499.4        33.3        F
         NB
                  Right Turn      12           8     66.7%     420.6        42.2        F
                  Subtotal       2620         1622   61.9%     498.7        33.1        F
                  Left Turn      492          465    94.5%     89.4          7.7        F
                  Through        829          793    95.7%     13.6          1.5        B
         SB
                  Right Turn      72           73    101.4%    7.7           1.0        A
                  Subtotal       1393         1331    95.5%    39.8          4.1        D
                  Left Turn       69          70     101.4%    121.1        18.6        F
                  Through         17          15     88.2%     115.0        23.5        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      14          13     92.9%      5.7         1.3         A
                  Subtotal        100         98      98.0%    104.5        15.2        F
                Left Turn         26           22    84.6%     776.3        83.5        F
                Through           12           9     75.0%     773.3        130.2       F
         WB
                Right Turn       1058         848    80.2%     750.5         77.5       F
                Subtotal         1096         879    80.2%     751.8         76.7       F
               Total             5209         3930   75.4%     389.4         16.1       F




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                             Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                             2035 No Build Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                       AM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                          Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)    Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.    Storage?
               Left Turn       250           61          9         322         97         MAX
     NB        Through        3000          1095         60        2804        6          NO
               Right Turn      100           97          1         390         9          MAX
               Left Turn       500           148          31       442        123         NO
     SB        Through        3600            61          11       605        132         NO
               Right Turn       0             61          11       605        132         AVG
               Left Turn        0             31          4        251         36         AVG
     EB        Through         150            79         100       251         36         MAX
               Right Turn       0             41          5        284         36         AVG
               Left Turn        0            212          71       604        210         AVG
     WB        Through          0            212          71       604        210         AVG
               Right Turn     1000           344          68       1015        93         MAX



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)    Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.    Storage?
               Left Turn       200           11           2         88         15         NO
     NB        Through        3800          4946          59       5310        3          AVG
               Right Turn      100           0            0         41         22         NO
               Left Turn       400          143           26       704        222         MAX
     SB        Through        3000           25           3        382        135         NO
               Right Turn      100           1            0         58         36         NO
               Left Turn        0            58           10       225         45         AVG
     EB        Through         100           58           10       225         45         MAX
               Right Turn      50            0            0         24         7          NO
               Left Turn       100           17           3         79         15         NO
     WB        Through          0            17           3         79         15         AVG
               Right Turn     4700          4322         280       5426       123         MAX




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                     Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                                     2035 No Build Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                               PM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                   Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       24           23    95.8%     153.7        18.4        F
                  Through        1867         1630   87.3%     21.6         2.6         C
         NB
                  Right Turn      80           67    83.8%     21.4         3.4         C
                  Subtotal       1971         1720   87.3%     23.3         2.6         C
                  Left Turn      246          175    71.1%     542.6        43.3        F
                  Through        3089         2163   70.0%     425.8        34.8        F
         SB
                  Right Turn      29           18    62.1%     434.1        68.7        F
                  Subtotal       3364         2356   70.0%     434.6        34.1        F
                  Left Turn       19          18     94.7%     117.7        18.5        F
                  Through         4           3      75.0%     115.0        56.8        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      35          29     82.9%     153.3        33.4        F
                  Subtotal        58          50     86.2%     136.8        25.9        F
                Left Turn         75           73    97.3%     155.3        22.4        F
                Through           4            4     100.0%    157.9        48.3        F
         WB
                Right Turn       112          115    102.7%    15.4         2.4         B
                Subtotal         191          192    100.5%    71.4         11.9        E
               Total             5584         4318    77.3%    251.1        16.9        F



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                         Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       48           35    72.9%     77.5          7.7        E
                  Through        1431         1228   85.8%     31.4          1.6        C
         NB
                  Right Turn      19           15    78.9%     21.7          5.7        C
                  Subtotal       1498         1278   85.3%     32.5          1.6        C
                  Left Turn      1103         781    70.8%     235.2        10.7        F
                  Through        2011         1408   70.0%     150.9         8.2        F
         SB
                  Right Turn      85           57    67.1%     148.0        16.1        F
                  Subtotal       3199         2246   70.2%     180.2         9.9        F
                  Left Turn       104         100    96.2%     102.1        29.4        F
                  Through         52          28     53.8%     94.0         22.0        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      66          93     140.9%    22.3         12.8        C
                  Subtotal        222         221     99.5%    67.8         22.1        E
                Left Turn         55           55    100.0%    68.4         6.4         E
                Through           18           19    105.6%    73.4         11.0        E
         WB
                Right Turn       436          387    88.8%      8.6         0.9         A
                Subtotal         509          461     90.6%    18.3         1.3         B
               Total             5428         4206    77.5%    111.6         4.4        F




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                             Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                             2035 No Build Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                       PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                          Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)    Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.    Storage?
               Left Turn       250           18          5         103         23         NO
     NB        Through        3000           73          9         568         98         NO
               Right Turn      100           33          11        387         8          MAX
               Left Turn       500          2383        2362       5900       4697        AVG
     SB        Through        3600          6907        492        9554        8          AVG
               Right Turn       0           6907        492        9554        8          AVG
               Left Turn        0            29          8         157         41         AVG
     EB        Through         150           27          8         157         41         MAX
               Right Turn       0            47          10        190         41         AVG
               Left Turn        0            65          14        239         46         AVG
     WB        Through          0            65          14        239         46         AVG
               Right Turn     1000           9           2         142         30         NO



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)    Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.    Storage?
               Left Turn       200           13           3         96         15         NO
     NB        Through        3800          100           7        624         75         NO
               Right Turn      100           0            0         52          6         NO
               Left Turn       400          580           78       1749         9         AVG
     SB        Through        3000          2567         799       3210       1529        MAX
               Right Turn      100           0            0         40         32         NO
               Left Turn        0            80           33       318        139         AVG
     EB        Through         100           80           33       318        139         MAX
               Right Turn      50            7            1        102         23         MAX
               Left Turn       100           28           2        146         24         MAX
     WB        Through          0            28           2        146         24         AVG
               Right Turn     4700           10           1        105         11         NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                   Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                             2035 3 Lane Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                             AM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       89           83    93.3%     221.3      27.3        F
                  Through        3425         3141   91.7%     69.2       11.5        E
         NB
                  Right Turn      177         154    87.0%     62.2       12.3        E
                  Subtotal       3691         3378   91.5%     72.6       11.5        E
                  Left Turn      139          126    90.6%     162.5      28.1        F
                  Through        1263         1240   98.2%     20.0       1.0         B
         SB
                  Right Turn      56           55    98.2%     17.8       3.4         B
                  Subtotal       1458         1421   97.5%     32.6       3.7         C
                  Left Turn       18          13     72.2%     134.8      26.8        F
                  Through         33          21     63.6%     124.3      15.2        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      8           5      62.5%     36.8       28.6        D
                  Subtotal        59          39     66.1%     115.4      12.1        F
                Left Turn        123          110    89.4%     165.4      13.1        F
                Through           1            0     0.0%       0.0        0.0        A
         WB
                Right Turn       295          264    89.5%     166.8      27.5        F
                Subtotal         419          374    89.3%     166.6      19.8        F
               Total             5627         5212   92.6%      68.8       7.9        E



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                      Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       44           38    86.4%     143.5      7.7         F
                  Through        2564         2211   86.2%     134.7      6.3         F
         NB
                  Right Turn      12           9     75.0%      69.5      19.8        E
                  Subtotal       2620         2258   86.2%     134.6      6.3         F
                  Left Turn      493          477    96.8%     98.1       11.9        F
                  Through        829          797    96.1%     19.9       3.2         B
         SB
                  Right Turn      72           67    93.1%     11.1       3.4         B
                  Subtotal       1394         1341   96.2%     47.3       4.1         D
                  Left Turn       69          67     97.1%     105.5      17.7        F
                  Through         17          16     94.1%     96.9       17.7        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      14          15     107.1%     7.6       2.8         A
                  Subtotal        100         98      98.0%    89.8       16.5        F
                Left Turn         26           28    107.7%    83.6       17.0        F
                Through           12           11    91.7%     84.1       18.2        F
         WB
                Right Turn       1058         1081   102.2%    50.0       12.5        D
                Subtotal         1096         1120   102.2%    51.1       12.4        D
               Total             5210         4817    92.5%    90.0       4.5         F




Fehr & Peers                                                                               5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                              Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                        2035 3 Lane Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                        AM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                           Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)    Exceeds
  Direction     Movement       (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.    Storage?
               Left Turn       250           303        140        2454      733          AVG
     NB        Through        3000           858        221        2940      217           NO
               Right Turn      100           816        257        2991      217          AVG
               Left Turn       500           133         38         427      121           NO
     SB        Through        3600            51          3         438       67           NO
               Right Turn       0             51          3         438       67          AVG
               Left Turn        0             27          4         209       36          AVG
     EB        Through         150            60         69         207       36          MAX
               Right Turn       0             0           0          22        8          AVG
               Left Turn        0            121         13         426       69          AVG
     WB        Through          0            121         13         426       69          AVG
               Right Turn     1000           384         90        1486      443          MAX



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                 Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)    Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.    Storage?
               Left Turn       200            18         5         103          20         NO
     NB        Through        3800           293         45        1141         98         NO
               Right Turn      100            0          0          44          10         NO
               Left Turn      3000           166         35        878         332         NO
     SB        Through        3000            51         11        608         287         NO
               Right Turn      100            0          0          43          10         NO
               Left Turn        0             51         10        212          63         AVG
     EB        Through         100            51         10        212          63         MAX
               Right Turn      200            0          0          37          10         NO
               Left Turn       100            13         4         100          42         MAX
     WB        Through          0             13         4         100          42         AVG
               Right Turn     4700           180         64        866         186         NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                 5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                    Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                             2035 3 Lanes Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                              PM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                  Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       24           24    100.0%     151.9      20.0        F
                  Through        1689         1704   100.9%     33.4       4.1         C
         NB
                  Right Turn      80           69    86.3%      35.2       8.3         D
                  Subtotal       1971         1797    91.2%     35.0       4.3         C
                  Left Turn      246          234    95.1%      170.7      15.2        F
                  Through        3089         2919   94.5%      52.4       11.9        D
         SB
                  Right Turn      29           24    82.8%      45.9       13.6        D
                  Subtotal       3364         3177   94.4%      61.1       11.9        E
                  Left Turn       19          18     94.7%      105.5      24.9        F
                  Through         4           3      75.0%      101.8      50.2        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      35          30     85.7%      79.9       18.8        E
                  Subtotal        58          51     87.9%      92.1       15.0        F
                Left Turn         75           73    97.3%      137.1      17.9        F
                Through           4            4     100.0%     144.5      49.0        F
         WB
                Right Turn       112          115    102.7%     20.8       3.2         C
                Subtotal         191          192    100.5%     67.8       9.0         E
               Total             5584         5217    93.4%     52.6       7.9         D



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                        Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       48           36    75.0%      86.6       12.7        F
                  Through        1431         1280   89.4%      87.6       19.8        F
         NB
                  Right Turn      19           16    84.2%      58.6       21.5        E
                  Subtotal       1498         1332   88.9%      87.2       19.7        F
                  Left Turn      1103         1046   94.8%      127.8      26.0        F
                  Through        2011         1894   94.2%      49.1       7.3         D
         SB
                  Right Turn      85           76    89.4%      44.3       7.3         D
                  Subtotal       3199         3016   94.3%      76.4       12.7        E
                  Left Turn       104         127    122.1%     79.3       8.3         E
                  Through         52          22     42.3%      80.6       9.7         F
         EB
                  Right Turn      66          71     107.6%     7.9        1.0         A
                  Subtotal        222         220     99.1%     56.4       6.7         E
                Left Turn         55           52    94.5%      56.9       4.2         E
                Through           18           16    88.9%      64.9       10.1        E
         WB
                Right Turn       436          408    93.6%      9.9        0.5         A
                Subtotal         509          476    93.5%      16.9       1.2         B
               Total             5428         5044   92.9%      72.7       10.5        E




Fehr & Peers                                                                               5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                              Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                       2035 3 Lanes Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                        PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                           Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)     Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.     Storage?
               Left Turn       250            18         4          90          15         NO
     NB        Through        3000           136         18        897         213         NO
               Right Turn      100           118         30        895         223         AVG
               Left Turn       500           293          82       2081        1733        MAX
     SB        Through        3600           334         151       2600        2023        NO
               Right Turn       0            334         151       2600        2023        AVG
               Left Turn        0             12          3        109          46         AVG
     EB        Through         150            9           3        109          46         NO
               Right Turn       0             16          5        115          40         AVG
               Left Turn        0             62          12       237          60         AVG
     WB        Through          0             62          12       237          60         AVG
               Right Turn     1000            16          3        170          48         NO



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                 Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)     Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.     Storage?
               Left Turn       200            10          2         91          25         NO
     NB        Through        3800           257          74       675         117         NO
               Right Turn      100            1           1         52          7          NO
               Left Turn      3000           580         343       2759        464         NO
     SB        Through        3000           736         336       2693        577         NO
               Right Turn      100            0           0         39          12         NO
               Left Turn        0             70          10       284          67         AVG
     EB        Through         100            70          10       284          67         MAX
               Right Turn      200            2           0         65          10         NO
               Left Turn       100            22          3        131          17         MAX
     WB        Through          0             22          3        131          17         AVG
               Right Turn     4700            12          1        106          13         NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                 5/6/2008
Queues                                                                             Calera Parkway
1: Reina del Mar Drive & SR 1                                                             7/24/2008



Lane Group               EBT WBT      WBR NBL       NBT     NBR SBL         SBT
Lane Group Flow (vph)      63   86     122   26     2029      87  267      3390
v/c Ratio                0.65 0.76    0.57 0.57      0.60   0.08 0.94       0.82
Control Delay           108.8 147.2   21.1 156.3     30.3   17.4 132.3      21.0
Queue Delay               0.0   0.0     0.0  0.0      0.0     0.0  0.0       0.0
Total Delay             108.8 147.2   21.1 156.3     30.3   17.4 132.3      21.0
Queue Length 50th (ft)     89  177        0   51     765      47  525      1279
Queue Length 95th (ft)   165   274      93  105     1092     103  677      1814
Internal Link Dist (ft)  201 1987                   2628                   3077
Turn Bay Length (ft)                         250             100    500
Base Capacity (vph)      144   171    262      82   3409    1066    387    4121
Starvation Cap Reductn      0     0      0      0       0       0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn       0     0      0      0       0       0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn         0     0      0      0       0       0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio        0.44 0.50    0.47   0.32    0.60    0.08   0.69    0.82
Intersection Summary




2035 PM Peak                                                                        Synchro 6 Report
Option A                                                                                     Page 1
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                  Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                        2035 3 Lane+POC Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                            AM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       89           82    92.1%     212.7      11.4       F
                  Through        3425         3130   91.4%     62.5       6.3        E
         NB
                  Right Turn      177         153    86.4%     55.2       7.8        E
                  Subtotal       3691         3365   91.2%     65.8       6.0        E
                  Left Turn      139          123    88.5%     170.0      27.0       F
                  Through        1263         1226   97.1%     18.6       1.4        B
         SB
                  Right Turn      56           55    98.2%     16.8       2.2        B
                  Subtotal       1458         1404   96.3%     31.9       3.8        C
                  Left Turn       18          13     72.2%     127.3      33.2       F
                  Through         33          21     63.6%     128.5      15.5       F
         EB
                  Right Turn      8           5      62.5%     42.9       28.3       D
                  Subtotal        59          39     66.1%     116.0      13.5       F
                Left Turn        123          117    95.1%     164.6      14.8       F
                Through           1            0     0.0%       0.0        0.0       A
         WB
                Right Turn       295          268    90.8%     163.8      22.8       F
                Subtotal         419          385    91.9%     164.1      17.6       F
               Total             5627         5193   92.3%      64.3       4.1       E



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                      Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       44           38    86.4%     143.2      13.3       F
                  Through        2564         2206   86.0%     130.8      7.0        F
         NB
                  Right Turn      12           9     75.0%      61.4      12.6       E
                  Subtotal       2620         2253   86.0%     130.7      7.0        F
                  Left Turn      493          473    95.9%     92.5       10.5       F
                  Through        829          796    96.0%     17.6       1.0        B
         SB
                  Right Turn      72           67    93.1%     9.3        2.5        A
                  Subtotal       1394         1336   95.8%     43.8       4.6        D
                  Left Turn       69          67     97.1%     100.1      10.4       F
                  Through         17          16     94.1%     98.2       25.6       F
         EB
                  Right Turn      14          15     107.1%     6.7       0.9        A
                  Subtotal        100         98      98.0%    86.0       10.4       F
                Left Turn         26           27    103.8%    84.1       12.1       F
                Through           12           10    83.3%     84.6       16.1       F
         WB
                Right Turn       1058         1083   102.4%    48.8       6.9        D
                Subtotal         1096         1120   102.2%    50.0       7.0        D
               Total             5210         4807    92.3%    86.8        4.6       F




Fehr & Peers                                                                               5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                               Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                     2035 3 Lane+POC Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                         AM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                            Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)     Maximum Queue (ft)     Exceeds
  Direction     Movement       (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.    Average  Std. Dev.     Storage?
               Left Turn       250           280        110         2563      423           AVG
     NB        Through        3000           709        102         2866      257            NO
               Right Turn      100           598         94         2845      284           AVG
               Left Turn       500           140         38          400      118            NO
     SB        Through        3600            48          4          449       49            NO
               Right Turn       0             48          4          449       49           AVG
               Left Turn        0             27          4          209       44           AVG
     EB        Through         150            58         68          207       44           MAX
               Right Turn       0             0           0           22        7           AVG
               Left Turn        0            120         17          432       72           AVG
     WB        Through          0            120         17          432       72           AVG
               Right Turn     1000           361         70         1313      249           MAX



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                  Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)     Maximum Queue (ft)     Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.    Average  Std. Dev.     Storage?
               Left Turn       200            19         4           111          16        NO
     NB        Through        3800           277         52          1142        115        NO
               Right Turn      100            0          0            51          8         NO
               Left Turn      3000           150         37          687         255        NO
     SB        Through        3000            41         4           502         107        NO
               Right Turn      100            0          0            45          19        NO
               Left Turn        0             49         6           200          32        AVG
     EB        Through         100            49         6           200          32        MAX
               Right Turn      200            0          0            37          10        NO
               Left Turn       100            14         4            91          18        NO
     WB        Through          0             14         4            91          18        AVG
               Right Turn     4700           174         39          865         193        NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                  5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                  Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                       2035 3 Lanes+POC Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                            PM Peak Hour

     Intersection 1            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       24           23    95.8%     138.5      15.7       F
                  Through        1867         1702   91.2%     28.2       4.4        C
         NB
                  Right Turn      80           68    85.0%     24.5       6.4        C
                  Subtotal       1971         1793   91.0%     29.5       4.5        C
                  Left Turn      246          235    95.5%     163.3      18.2       F
                  Through        3089         2914   94.3%     46.9       15.2       D
         SB
                  Right Turn      29           24    82.8%     42.2       17.9       D
                  Subtotal       3364         3173   94.3%     55.5       15.4       E
                  Left Turn       19          19     100.0%    109.7      19.7       F
                  Through         4           3      75.0%     98.1       63.1       F
         EB
                  Right Turn      35          31     88.6%     85.6       19.9       F
                  Subtotal        58          53      91.4%    97.0       21.2       F
                Left Turn         75           75    100.0%    118.7      8.0        F
                Through           4            4     100.0%    120.4      63.2       F
         WB
                Right Turn       112          116    103.6%    18.7       1.9        B
                Subtotal         191          195    102.1%    59.4       5.4        E
               Total             5584         5214    93.4%    47.1       10.3       D



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                      Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served         Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %      Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       48           36    75.0%     83.6        8.1       F
                  Through        1431         1277   89.2%     83.1       11.2       F
         NB
                  Right Turn      19           16    84.2%     55.1       11.6       E
                  Subtotal       1498         1329   88.7%     82.8       11.0       F
                  Left Turn      1103         1050   95.2%     127.8      26.2       F
                  Through        2011         1900   94.5%     47.0       7.9        D
         SB
                  Right Turn      85           77    90.6%     42.5       9.1        D
                  Subtotal       3199         3027   94.6%     75.1       12.3       E
                  Left Turn       104         127    122.1%    75.9       7.4        E
                  Through         52          22     42.3%     74.6       11.6       E
         EB
                  Right Turn      66          71     107.6%    7.7        0.8        A
                  Subtotal        222         220     99.1%    53.9       5.9        D
                Left Turn         55           52    94.5%     59.8       6.2        E
                Through           18           16    88.9%     63.2       12.1       E
         WB
                Right Turn       436          408    93.6%     9.7        0.8        A
                Subtotal         509          476    93.5%     17.0       1.2        B
               Total             5428         5052   93.1%     70.7       8.6        E




Fehr & Peers                                                                               5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                                Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                     2035 3 Lanes+POC Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                          PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                             Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)      Maximum Queue (ft)     Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.     Average  Std. Dev.     Storage?
               Left Turn       250            17         3             88          20        NO
     NB        Through        3000           109         21           793         182        NO
               Right Turn      100            97         24           837         188        MAX
               Left Turn       500           252          55          1363       937         MAX
     SB        Through        3600           340         271          2826       2272        NO
               Right Turn       0            340         271          2826       2272        AVG
               Left Turn        0             13          3           122         54         AVG
     EB        Through         150            9           4           122         54         NO
               Right Turn       0             16          7           128         61         AVG
               Left Turn        0             55          7           219         32         AVG
     WB        Through          0             55          7           219         32         AVG
               Right Turn     1000            15          2           131         26         NO



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                   Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)      Maximum Queue (ft)     Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.     Average  Std. Dev.     Storage?
               Left Turn       200            11          2            96          30        NO
     NB        Through        3800           238          42          680          92        NO
               Right Turn      100            0           0            54          10        NO
               Left Turn      3000           787         259          2834        401        NO
     SB        Through        3000           662         261          2727        495        NO
               Right Turn      100            0           0            34          11        NO
               Left Turn        0             67          9           264          64        AVG
     EB        Through         100            67          9           264          64        MAX
               Right Turn      200            2           0            63          10        NO
               Left Turn       100            23          3           129          16        MAX
     WB        Through          0             23          3           129          16        AVG
               Right Turn     4700            12          1           118          23        NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                   5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                      Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                            2035 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                                AM Peak Hour

     Intersection 0            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                    Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served           Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %        Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         NB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         SB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         EB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                Left Turn
                Through
         WB
                Right Turn
                Subtotal
               Total



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                          Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served           Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %        Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       44           38    86.4%        168.6      21.3        F
                  Through        2564         2194   85.6%        167.9      16.8        F
         NB
                  Right Turn      11           9     81.8%         99.8      24.3        F
                  Subtotal       2619         2241   85.6%        167.7      16.9        F
                  Left Turn      493          477    96.8%        81.8       4.4         F
                  Through        829          803    96.9%        18.9       2.3         B
         SB
                  Right Turn      72           66    91.7%        8.9        2.4         A
                  Subtotal       1394         1346   96.6%        40.7       2.1         D
                  Left Turn       69          67     97.1%        106.4      17.1        F
                  Through         17          16     94.1%        101.3      18.7        F
         EB
                  Right Turn      14          15     107.1%        7.2       0.2         A
                  Subtotal        100         98      98.0%       90.9       15.9        F
                Left Turn         26           28    107.7%       123.1      20.1        F
                Through           12           11    91.7%        119.3      24.9        F
         WB
                Right Turn       1058         1096   103.6%       84.5       17.2        F
                Subtotal         1096         1135   103.6%       85.8       17.2        F
               Total             5209         4820    92.5%       111.3      9.4         F




Fehr & Peers                                                                                 5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                       Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                             2035 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                                 AM Peak Hour

     Intersection 3            East Ramps                                           Unsignalized

                               Demand         Volume Served          Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement    Volume       Average      %       Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn      89           80      89.9%        40.5       3.4         E
                  Through
         NB
                  Right Turn     177          153     86.4%        39.3       1.5         E
                  Subtotal       266          233     87.6%        39.7       1.5         E
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         SB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn      18            14     77.8%         1.0       0.4         A
                  Through        172          152     88.4%         0.8       0.1         A
         EB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal       190          166     87.4%         0.8       0.1         A
                Left Turn
                Through          124          125     100.8%       0.8        0.1         A
         WB
                Right Turn       295          298     101.0%       2.2        0.1         A
                Subtotal         419          423     101.0%       1.8        0.1         A
               Total             875          822      93.9%       12.4       0.8         B



     Intersection 4            West Ramps                                           Unsignalized

                               Demand         Volume Served          Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement    Volume       Average      %       Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         NB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn      139          129     92.8%        11.7       1.0         B
                  Through
         SB
                  Right Turn     56           55      98.2%        10.9       1.0         B
                  Subtotal       195          184     94.4%        11.4       0.8         B
                  Left Turn
                  Through         51          38      74.5%         0.0       0.0         A
         EB
                  Right Turn      8           6       75.0%         0.8       0.2         A
                  Subtotal        59          44      74.6%         0.1       0.1         A
                Left Turn        123          124     100.8%        0.7       0.1         A
                Through          90           80      88.9%         0.4       0.1         A
         WB
                Right Turn
                Subtotal         213          204     95.8%         0.6       0.1         A
               Total             467          432     92.5%         5.2       0.5         A




Fehr & Peers                                                                                  5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                              Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                    2035 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                        AM Peak Hour

 Intersection 0             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                           Signalized

                             Storage       Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction     Movement       (ft)       Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn
     NB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn
     SB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn
     EB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn
     WB        Through
               Right Turn



 Intersection 2             SR1/Fassler                                                  Signalized

                             Storage       Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)       Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn       200           18          5         108          24         NO
     NB        Through        3800          539         131        1894        693         NO
               Right Turn      100           0           0          40          22         NO
               Left Turn      3000          130          14        467         116         NO
     SB        Through        3000           45          7         353          66         NO
               Right Turn      100           1           0          63          57         NO
               Left Turn        0            51          10        208          41         AVG
     EB        Through         100           51          10        208          41         MAX
               Right Turn      200           0           0          23          9          NO
               Left Turn       100           16          3          82          18         NO
     WB        Through          0            16          3          82          18         AVG
               Right Turn     4700          344          92        1156        224         NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                 5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                             Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                   2035 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                       AM Peak Hour

 Intersection 3             East Ramps                                               Unsignalized

                             Storage      Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)      Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn        0          20           3         242          30         AVG
     NB        Through          0          20           3         242          30         AVG
               Right Turn      500         20           3         242          30         NO
               Left Turn        0           0           0          0           0          NO
     SB        Through          0           0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn       0           0           0          0           0          NO
               Left Turn        0           0           0          18          14         AVG
     EB        Through         200          0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn       0           0           0          0           0          NO
               Left Turn        0           0           0          0           0          NO
     WB        Through        1000          0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn     1000          0           0          0           0          NO



 Intersection 4             West Ramps                                               Unsignalized

                             Storage      Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)      Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn        0           0           0          0           0          NO
     NB        Through          0           0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn       0           0           0          0           0          NO
               Left Turn       500          9           2         128          41         NO
     SB        Through          0           9           2         130          42         AVG
               Right Turn       0           9           2         129          42         AVG
               Left Turn        0           0           0          0           0          NO
     EB        Through         150          0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn       0           0           0          0           0          NO
               Left Turn       200          0           0          24          3          NO
     WB        Through          0           0           0          3           9          MAX
               Right Turn       0           0           0          0           0          NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                      Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                            2035 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                                PM Peak Hour

     Intersection 0            SR 1/Reina del Mar                                    Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served           Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %        Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         NB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         SB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         EB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                Left Turn
                Through
         WB
                Right Turn
                Subtotal
               Total



     Intersection 2            SR 1/Fassler                                          Signalized

                                Demand      Volume Served           Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement     Volume    Average      %        Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn       48           36    75.0%        66.2       9.9         E
                  Through        1431         1270   88.7%        61.4       7.3         E
         NB
                  Right Turn      19           16    84.2%        35.8       14.6        D
                  Subtotal       1498         1322   88.3%        61.2       7.2         E
                  Left Turn      1103         1090   98.8%        75.8       13.3        E
                  Through        2011         1938   96.4%        28.7       3.3         C
         SB
                  Right Turn      85           77    90.6%        24.3       4.4         C
                  Subtotal       3199         3105   97.1%        45.2       6.2         D
                  Left Turn       104         127    122.1%       74.7       8.6         E
                  Through         52          22     42.3%        70.2       12.8        E
         EB
                  Right Turn      66          71     107.6%       7.9        1.2         A
                  Subtotal        222         220     99.1%       52.6       7.0         D
                Left Turn         55           52    94.5%        60.0       5.8         E
                Through           18           16    88.9%        67.6       7.4         E
         WB
                Right Turn       436          409    93.8%        9.6        0.7         A
                Subtotal         509          477    93.7%        17.0       1.3         B
               Total             5428         5124   94.4%        47.0       5.1         D




Fehr & Peers                                                                                 5/6/2008
     VISSIM Post-Processor                                                       Calera Parkway
     Average Results from 10 Runs                             2035 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
     Volume and Delay by Movement                                                 PM Peak Hour

     Intersection 3            East Ramps                                           Unsignalized

                               Demand         Volume Served          Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement    Volume       Average      %       Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn      24           23      95.8%        20.6       2.2         C
                  Through
         NB
                  Right Turn     80           69      86.3%        19.7       1.4         C
                  Subtotal       104          92      88.5%        20.0       1.3         C
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         SB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn      19            19     100.0%        0.3       0.2         A
                  Through        250          248     99.2%         0.6       0.1         A
         EB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal       269          267     99.3%         0.5       0.1         A
                Left Turn
                Through          79           76      96.2%         0.3       0.1         A
         WB
                Right Turn       112          114     101.8%        0.9       0.1         A
                Subtotal         191          190      99.5%        0.7       0.1         A
               Total             564          549      97.3%        3.8       0.4         A



     Intersection 4            West Ramps                                           Unsignalized

                               Demand         Volume Served          Total Delay (sec/veh)
      Direction    Movement    Volume       Average      %       Average Std. Dev.      LOS
                  Left Turn
                  Through
         NB
                  Right Turn
                  Subtotal
                  Left Turn      246          245     99.6%        21.0       3.6         C
                  Through
         SB
                  Right Turn     29           25      86.2%        19.4       4.7         C
                  Subtotal       275          270     98.2%        20.9       3.6         C
                  Left Turn
                  Through         23          22      95.7%         0.0       0.0         A
         EB
                  Right Turn      35          33      94.3%         1.0       0.1         A
                  Subtotal        58          55      94.8%         0.6       0.1         A
                Left Turn         75          72      96.0%         0.6       0.1         A
                Through           28          26      92.9%         0.4       0.1         A
         WB
                Right Turn
                Subtotal         103          98      95.1%        0.5        0.1         A
               Total             436          423     97.0%        13.5       2.4         B




Fehr & Peers                                                                                  5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                               Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                     2035 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                         PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 0             SR 1/Reina del Mar                                            Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn
     NB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn
     SB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn
     EB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn
     WB        Through
               Right Turn



 Intersection 2             SR 1/Fassler                                                  Signalized

                             Storage        Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)        Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn       200            10         3           89          19         NO
     NB        Through        3800           177         26         552          71         NO
               Right Turn      100            1          0           58          16         NO
               Left Turn      3000           382         97         2109        389         NO
     SB        Through        3000           308         99         2055        402         NO
               Right Turn      100            0          0           36          16         NO
               Left Turn        0             65         10         259          57         AVG
     EB        Through         100            65         10         259          57         MAX
               Right Turn      200            1          0           55          9          NO
               Left Turn       100            23         4          136          15         MAX
     WB        Through          0             23         4          136          15         AVG
               Right Turn     4700            12         1          121          9          NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                  5/6/2008
 VISSIM Post-Processor                                                             Calera Parkway
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                   2035 Grade Sep. Project Conditions
 Queue Length                                                                       PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 3             East Ramps                                               Unsignalized

                             Storage      Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)      Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn        0           5           1         112          27         AVG
     NB        Through          0           5           1         113          27         AVG
               Right Turn      500          5           1         112          27         NO
               Left Turn
     SB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn        0           0           0          17          14         MAX
     EB        Through         200          0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn       0           0           0          0           0          NO
               Left Turn        0           0           0          0           0          NO
     WB        Through        1000          0           0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn     1000          0           0          0           0          NO



 Intersection 4             West Ramps                                               Unsignalized

                             Storage      Average Queue (ft)    Maximum Queue (ft)      Exceeds
  Direction    Movement        (ft)      Average    Std. Dev.   Average  Std. Dev.      Storage?
               Left Turn
     NB        Through
               Right Turn
               Left Turn       500         16           3         179          61         NO
     SB        Through          0          17           3         180          61         AVG
               Right Turn       0          16           3         180          61         AVG
               Left Turn        0          0            0          0           0          NO
     EB        Through         150         0            0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn       0          0            0          0           0          NO
               Left Turn       200         0            0          21          7          NO
     WB        Through          0          0            0          0           0          NO
               Right Turn       0          0            0          0           0          NO




Fehr & Peers                                                                                5/6/2008
                      Calera Parkway: Transit Analysis
                              October 28, 2008

Issue
This analysis examines the feasibility of increasing transit service as a means of
alleviating road congestion along Highway 1 from Reina del Mar Avenue to Fassler
Avenue.


Project Description
The Calera Parkway project area includes Highway 1, from 1.3 miles north of Reina
del Mar Avenue to 1 mile south of Fassler Avenue. The alternatives being considered
for improvements to the corridor is the widening of Highway 1 from 2 to 3 lanes in
each direction. An environmental study is currently being undertaken and is expected
to be completed in 2009.


Existing Conditions
Highway 1 is a two-lane roadway, which widens to four lanes in Pacifica. Just north of
the study area, Highway 1 becomes a freeway for five miles before merging with
Interstate 280. Adjoining streets which create the intersections include Fassler
Avenue, a four-lane roadway that extends east of Highway 1 into the Pacifica Hills,
and Reina del Mar Avenue, a short two-lane street extending east of Highway 1.

a) Congestion and Travel Patterns
    Peak period congestion in the AM is caused by or exacerbated by travel due
     to child drop-off at schools in the area.
    Peak period congestion in the AM and PM is possibly due to job related
     commutes from San Francisco (employment center) to the "Coastside"
     (residential center).
    The congestion also appears to be related to conflicts between local and
     through traffic at intersections, which includes pedestrian crossing major
     intersections that require longer cross-traffic time.

b) Existing Transit Routes in the project area
   The following table shows the seven routes that operate in the project area and
   lists average weekday ridership (AWR), the time of service, headway, and a brief
   description of the route.




                                                                             Page 1 of 4
Table 1: Existing SamTrans Transit Routes near Pacifica

              Avg.                              Headways*
            Weekday
 Route                                                                         Description
            Ridershi        Pea       Mid-      Evenin     Saturda   Sunda
               p             k        day         g           y        y
                                                                               Bi-directional Loop route through
   14           490          30        60         60*        60*      60*      Linda Mar - begins and ends at
                                                                               Linda Mar Park and Ride lot
                                       no          no        no        no
   16           210          n/a
                                     service     service   service   service
                                                                               School days at bell times only

                                                                               Pacifica to Daly City BART - local
  110          1,160         30        60          60        60       90       via Daly City
                                                   no                          Pacifica to Colma BART - local
  112           610          60        60        service     60       60       via Serramonte Shopping Center
                                                   1                           Pacifica to Hillsdale in San Mateo
  294           380          90        90       schedule    120       180      via Half Moon Bay
                            15 -       no          no        no        no      Pacifica to Colma BART Express
   CX           230                  service     service   service   service   on Hwy 1 - regular fare charged
                             35
                                                                               Pacifica to Downtown SF Express
                            15 -       no          no        no        no
   DX           270                  service     service   service   service
                                                                               via Hwy 1, I-280, US101 - peak
                             35                                                direction only

   *service is clockwise only during these times & days
   **headways noted in minutes



Discussion and Analysis
Existing traffic congestion along this corridor appears to be the result of conflicts
between local and through traffic at the signalized intersections resulting in level of
service (LOS) E and F in the AM peak and LOS F in the PM peak periods. This
situation is exacerbated by the high volume of pedestrians crossing the intersection.
These existing conditions (i.e. high volume to capacity ratio) have resulted in delayed
travel time and long queue length leading up to the intersections.

An alternative approach to expanding roadway capacity to relieve congestion on this
stretch of Highway 1 is to reduce the amount of vehicle miles traveled (especially
single occupancy vehicles) by providing additional transit service. The additional
transit service options such as dedicated school service, fixed route service, and
shuttle service are discussed below.

a) Additional Fixed Route Service
   As Table 1 demonstrates, the area is served by seven fixed-route transit lines.
   While providing additional transit service is a possible consideration, additional
   analysis would need to be undertaken to determine whether augmenting the
   existing service would be both optimal and cost effective. The Traffic Operations
   Analysis Report for the Calera Parkway project indicates that some of the
   congestion is related to intersection queues, particularly during the peak periods.
   This traffic appears to be generated from surrounding low density communities,
   whose land use patterns typically do not fare well for increasing ridership in


                                                                                                      Page 2 of 4
   comparison to higher density, urbanized ridership. Moreover, an increase in
   transit service will not likely eliminate the queuing at intersections. Hence, it is
   unlikely that providing additional transit service to this area which is predominately
   low-density residential, would significantly decrease existing congestion.

b) Additional School Service
   SamTrans currently provides seven routes that serve the study area. Routes
   14, 16, 110, and 112 have additional service during the school day-only.
   Routes 294, CX and DX do not offer special school-day service. The following
   table summarizes the school day-only service found on the seven routes
   serving the area.

        Table 2: SamTrans School Day Service

         School Day Service
         Route Description
             14   2 additional schedules each school day
             16   all 8 schedules school day only
            110   4 additional & 2 modified schedules each school day
            112   2 additional schedules each school day
            294   no school day only schedules
             CX   no school day only schedules
             DX   no school day only schedules



   Under the Federal-Aid Highway Act, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA)
   provides financial assistance to public transportation operations that do not
   provide exclusive school bus transportation to students. FTA regulations exempt
   "tripper service," which is mass transportation open to the public which
   accommodates the needs of students. Therefore, as a condition of using federal
   funds, services offered by SamTrans must be open and available to the fare
   paying general public.

   While bus service tailored to meet the needs of students at their schools and bell
   times have high ridership per trip, they are very expensive to provide. School
   trips function as one way trips with significant deadheading. Discounts offered to
   student passengers further erode the cost effectiveness of providing school day
   only trips. Plus, additional service provided to the area would have to be off-set by
   a reduction in service elsewhere in the system. Moreover, additional school
   service would potentially only mitigate the AM peak period congestion attributed
   to schools, but not address the degraded level of service due to the afternoon
   peak period traffic. Therefore, SamTrans would be limited both by regulatory
   constraints and resources to provide additional school day-only service.




                                                                                Page 3 of 4
c) Shuttle Service
   SamTrans currently operates Routes 14, 110, 112, 294, CX and DX that provide
   service to the beach side community via Highway 1. In 2006, C/CAG provided
   funding for a shuttle serving parts of Pacifica, called the Gold Line. The Gold Line
   service, while well-utilized, was costly to provide and provided redundant service
   to SamTrans Route 14. After community service and public input was sought, it
   was determined that the Gold Line be discontinued and instead integrated into the
   existing Route 14 service with increased frequency such as providing expanded
   weekend service. The expanded Route 14 service has been a successful model
   thus far. Average weekday ridership increased 11.5% from the prior year 2007
   ridership.

   It has been proposed that SamTrans provide additional shuttle services to the
   coastal areas via Highway 1. However, as was the case with the Gold Line, the
   service is expensive to provide on a per passenger basis, funding for such a
   shuttle is limited and not financially sustainable in the long term, and moreover is
   duplicative of existing SamTrans service that can provide more cost effective
   service. The route was integrated with Route 14 after it was determined that the
   Gold Line, which carried an average of 50 passengers per day, was taking away
   these passengers from SamTrans service, rather than attracting new riders.
   Based on this experience, it is therefore advised that revisiting community-based
   shuttle service not be recommended at this time.

Future Operational Plans
In the near future, SamTrans plans to initiate a Comprehensive Operational Analysis
(COA) to examine all fixed-route service provision within its network. This analysis
will provide more robust data, as well as incorporate factors such as cost
effectiveness metrics and level of service coverage from a system-wide perspective.
The COA will study the provision of SamTrans services and operations to more
efficiently and effectively serve the county's transit needs within the constraints of t he
current financial and operating environment. The transit service needs of Pacifica will
be factored into the system-wide analysis.

Conclusion
While augmented transit service may be a viable solution to alleviate some of the key
drivers of congestion impacting the study area, (e.g. vehicle miles traveled from
single-occupancy vehicles) it is clear that transit is not the only solution. Expanded
transportation demand management programs, such as carpooling and rideshare
should also be considered. In light of current financial and operating constraints,
expanded transit in this area is not recommended. However, expanded transit can
be part of future solutions once a complete analysis of the entire system and network
impacts in undertaken.

References:
1) Highway 1/ Calera Parkway Project. Final Traffic Operations Report, July 2008
2) Project Study Report (04-SM-01 P.M. 42/R43.2), July 1999
3) Ridership Trends/Coastside 07/Route 14, July 2008.



                                                                                   Page 4 of 4
PACIFICA BUS ROUTES


                                    14            16            110           112              294    CX     Totals
RIDERSHIP
Monthly Total                    10,227         5,144         27,919        12,812         9,167     5,891   71,160
Avg Weekday (AWR)                  465           322           1,269          582           417       268     3,322
Monthly NB (cw)                   5,568         2,765         15,910         5,828         5,287     2,131   37,489
AWR NB                             253           173            723           265           240        97     1,751
Monthly SB (ccw)                  4,654         2,368         12,068         6,985         3,848     3,798   33,721
AWR SB                             212           148            549           318           175       173     1,573

AVG WEEKDAY RIDERSHIP
Peak Hours                         196            N/A           463           197              165   227     1,248
Peak NB AM                          N/A           N/A           145            39               54    57      296
Peak SB PM                          N/A           N/A           132            53               27    88      300

OPERATING COST
Total Cost/Mile                   $5.39         $5.05          $4.86         $5.27         $2.50     $3.75   $4.19
Net Cost / Mile                   $4.22         $2.76          $2.81         $3.49         $0.55     $2.90   $2.48
Average Weekday Ridership (AWR) based on average month of data (April 2009)
cw - clockwise, ccw - counterclockwise, applies to Route 14 only
Peak hours are approximately 6:30-8:30 am and 4-6 pm
N/A for Route 16 because all are school trips and school trips are not counted as peak trips
Cost per mile number from route analysis November 2008



     Park-n-Ride Lot            Capacity        Count          Occupancy Rate
         Crespi                    83            69                 83%
       Linda Mar                  178            46                 26%
Counts are one day, after 9am in September 2009



Total School Day Only Trips Ridership = 437 Average School Day
December 8, 2009



Mr. Joseph Hurley
San Mateo County Transportation Authority
1250 San Carlos Avenue
San Carlos, California 94070
Recipient's address

Re:      Additional Transit Analysis for the SR 1/Calera Parkway Project
         Pacifica, California

Dear Joe:

Fehr & Peers has prepared this letter to describe the results of some supplemental analysis we
have conducted for the SR 1 / Calera Parkway project in Pacifica, California. The additional
analysis includes assessment of whether the reduced congestion and more stable vehicle flow
through the study corridor would increase or reduce overall greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
This letter also includes a discussion in response to questions raised by the California Coastal
Commission (CCC) related to a transit analysis memorandum previously submitted by SamTrans.

Because much of our supplemental analysis involves discussion of potential alternative transit
operations, a summary of existing transit service is provided.

SUMMARY OF EXISTING TRANSIT SERVICE

This section describes the nature of existing transit service in the area, as it relates to the project
study corridor. This section does not provide specific responses to any of the questions raised by
the California Coastal Commission; however it does provide useful background discussion to
inform our responses to their questions presented later in this letter. Figure 1 shows the existing
routes. Due to the relatively low density, primarily residential land development in the area,
transit service has been designed to serve two primary functions:

         So-called "Community Service" routes that commonly derive low ridership but provide
         local circulation, generally to providing mobility for transit-dependent residents that do not
         own automobiles

         Commuter and/or express service designed to transport commuters from the lower-
         density coastal residential areas into urban job centers (or to provide connections to other
         regional transit services that serve urban job centers)

SamTrans service in the area provides both of these services.

Routes 14 and 16 are local circulator routes that generally provided local circulation within
Pacifica. Each of these routes provides service to the Linda Mar Park & Ride Lot, where riders
can access commuter-oriented routes that, in turn, connect to regional transit facilities serving
San Francisco and other urbanized job centers.




                332 Pine Street, 4th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94104 (415) 348-0300 Fax (415) 773-1790
                                                  www.fehrandpeers.com
Mr. Joe Hurley
December 8, 2009
Page 2 of 11




    Route 14 offers service approximately every 30 minutes during peak hours from 6 AM until
    approximately 8 PM. Based on ridership data provided by SMCTA, approximately 50 riders
    use this route in peak directions during each of the two-hour AM and PM peak periods.
    Assuming a vehicle capacity of approximately 55 passengers per vehicle and two vehicles
    per hour during the peak hour (total of four vehicles during the two-hour peak period), this
    route operates at less than 25 percent capacity at its peak.

    Route 16 provides local service during typical school commute periods only. Generally, the
    route circulates throughout Pacifica, with stops at Terra Nova High School, the Pacifica
    Library, and the Linda Mar Park & Ride Lot. The route generally has four runs in the AM
    peak hour, each serving different origins and destinations, but generally designed to provide
    supplemental service for school trips. Similarly, the route provides four runs in the afternoon,
    between approximately 2:50 and 3:40 PM. Total average ridership is 173 in the AM peak
    hour and 148 in the afternoon peak hour. Assuming four vehicles in the AM and four in the
    afternoon, each with a capacity of approximately 55 passengers per vehicle, the ridership is
    just under 80 percent occupied. This suggests ridership is very good, but not so high that it
    constrains ridership.

Routes 110 and 112 are so-called "BART Connection" routes that provide service from the Linda
Mar Park & Ride lot to the Daly City and Colma BART stations, respectively.

    Route 110 operates from approximately 6 AM to 11 PM. Between 6 and 8 AM, the route
    operates between near the Pacific Manor shopping center and Daly City; after 8 AM, the
    route provides service to the Linda Mar Park & Ride. In the evening, service to the Linda Mar
    Park & Ride operates until 11 PM. AM and PM peak hour service to the Linda Mar Park &
    Ride operates at approximately one-hour frequency. Ridership information specific to service
    to the Linda Mar Park & Ride was not available; however, discussions with SamTrans staff
    suggest this route operates at approximately 80 percent capacity.

    Route 112 operates between the Linda Mar Park & Ride and the Colma BART Station, with
    hourly service from 8:20 AM to approximately 7:30 PM. The route serves approximately 39
    passengers in the two-hour AM peak period (approximately 35 percent capacity) and 53
    passengers in the PM peak period (approximately 50 percent capacity).

Route 294 is a co-called "Caltrain Connection" route that provides service between the Linda Mar
Park & Ride and the Hillsdale Caltrain Station to the east.

    Route 294 operates between the Linda Mar Park & Ride lot in Pacifica and the Hillsdale
    Caltrain station in San Mateo. The route operates between approximately 5:30 AM and 8:30
    PM. During peak hours, the route provides service approximately every 90 minutes from
    Pacifica through Montara, El Granada, and Half Moon Bay, before traveling east to the
    Hillsdale Caltrain Station. The route operates with 54 riders in the two-hour AM peak period
    (approximately 50 percent capacity) and 27 riders in the PM peak period (approximately 25
    percent capacity). The peak direction in the AM peak hour is northbound, toward Pacifica.
 Mr. Joe Hurley
 December 8, 2009
 Page 3 of 11




 Routes CX and DX are so-called "Express Service" which operate between the Linda Mar Park &
 Ride and the Colma BART Station and the Transbay Terminal in San Francisco, respectively.

         Route CX operates between the Linda Mar Park & Ride and the Colma BART Station.
         Service is provided approximately every 15 ­ 20 minutes in the AM and PM peak hours. The
         one-way trip takes between 15 ­ 20 minutes. Ridership on this route is approximately 57
         passengers in the two hour AM peak period. Assuming three vehicles per hour, this route is
         less than 20 percent of capacity. Ridership in the PM peak hour is higher, at 88 passengers
         per hour, or nearly 40 percent of capacity. This route will be renamed Route 118 in
         December 2009.

         Route DX operates between the Linda Mar Park & Ride and the Transbay Terminal in
         Downtown San Francisco. AM peak hour service operates northbound only, between
         approximately 6 AM and 8:30 AM. PM peak hour service operates southbound only,
         between approximately 4 PM and 7 PM. Ridership information was unavailable; however,
         due to its current $28.4 million budget shortfall, Samtrans is planning to discontinue this route
         in December 2009 since it offers similar service to other routes in the system and displaced
         riders have alternate routes (such as parallel service to Daly City and Colma BART stations).

 Overall ridership provided by SamTrans is summarized in Table 1, below. AM and PM peak hour
 capacity utilization for each of the routes is presented in Table 2.

                                                   Table 1
                                       Existing Transit Ridership Data1

                                                                    Route
            Ridership                                                                              Totals
                                      14          16          110           112    294    CX
Average Weekday                      465         322         1,269          582    417    268       3,322
Average Weekday (NB)                 253         173          723           265    240     97       1,751
Average Weekday (SB)                 212         148          549           318    175    173       1,573
Peak Period (2 Hours)                196         N/A          463           197    165    227       1,248
AM Peak Period (NB)                  N/A         N/A          145           39      54     57        296
PM Peak Period (SB)                  N/A         N/A          132           53      27     88        300
Notes:

    1.     Based on average number of passenger boardings
    2.     Average Weekday Ridership based on average month of data (April 2009)
    3.     Peak hours are approximately 6:30 ­ 8:30 AM and 4:00 ­ 6:00 PM

Source: SamTrans, 2009
  Mr. Joe Hurley
  December 8, 2009
  Page 4 of 11




                                                     Table 2
                                       Existing Transit Capacity Utilization

                                                                           Route
                                                                                                                        Totals
                                                           4
                                           14           16           110           112         2945          CX
AM Peak Period (NB)
Ridership                                 502          173          1453            39          54           57           518
Capacity1                                 220          220          220            110         110          275          1,045
Percent Utilized                          23%          79%          66%            35%         49%          21%          50%
PM Peak Period (SB)
                                                             4
Ridership                                 502          N/A           132            53          27           88          350
                                                          4
Capacity1                                 220          N/A           220           110         110          220          880
Percent Utilized                          23%          N/A4          60%           48%         25%          40%          40%
Notes:

    1.   Based on number of vehicles in peak period, assuming capacity of 55 passengers per vehicle
    2.   Actual peak period ridership not available, but estimated based on other similar routes.
    3.   Not all runs serve the Linda Mar Park & Ride. This may include riders that board north of the project study area.
    4.   Ridership in the AM peak hour is primarily associated with school service, and is not typically comprised of
         commuters. Also, this route does not operate in the PM peak period (4 ­ 6 PM). During the afternoon post-school
         period in which this route does operate, it operates at approximately 67 percent capacity with 148 riders.
    5.   Although this route does not provide service through the study corridor, it does provide service to other routes in the
         area that parallel service along the study corridor.

Source: SamTrans and Fehr & Peers, 2009



  SUPPLEMENTAL SIMULATION ANALYSIS

  Overall, the Calera Parkway project would address recurring peak period congestion through the
  study corridor, which is projected to get substantially worse if no action is taken. As you know,
  one of the key questions we have been asked is what effect the project would have on overall
  GHG emissions. Fortunately, the analysis models we have already developed are highly-detailed
  and able to produce metrics related to the improvements in overall GHG emissions related to
  improved traffic stability.

  Table 3 shows expected GHG and fuel consumption differences between the No Project and With
  Project conditions during the AM and PM peak hours for year 2035 conditions. As shown, peak-
  hour GHG emissions would drop approximately 9 percent during the AM peak hour with the
  project, compared to no project. Similar calculations for the PM peak hour show a 10 percent
  reduction in GHG emissions.
 Mr. Joe Hurley
 December 8, 2009
 Page 5 of 11




                                                     Table 3
                                             Greenhouse Gas Emissions

                                              AM Peak Hour                                    PM Peak Hour
            GHG                                 2035                                            2035
                                2035 No-                                        2035 No-
                                                With          Difference                        With            Difference
                                 Build                                           Build
                                               Project                                         Project
Emissions CO [g]                 65,467        59,571        -5,896 [-9%]         68,256       61,569          -6,687 [-10%]
Emissions Nox [g]                12,738        11,590        -1,147 [-9%]         13,280       11,979          -1,301 [-10%]
Emissions VOC [g]                15,173        13,806        -1,366 [-9%]         15,819       14,269          -1,550 [-10%]
Fuel Consumption [gal]            937           852            -84 [-9%]           976          881              -96 [-10%]

Source: Fehr & Peers, 2009



 We recognize that the comparison above is based on the same set of traffic forecasts (i.e., we
 have not accounted for potential changes to travel demand associated with the project). We have
 performed a sensitivity analysis to determine whether, if traffic volumes were lower without the
 project, the benefits of the project with respect to GHG emissions would be reduced. Our
 sensitivity analysis assumes the following:

             Typical commute times for auto traffic traveling through the study corridor are longer than
             average, given the relatively remote location of residential areas to the south. We
             assume they are approximately 60 minutes under year 2035 conditions without the
             project.

             The project would reduce the travel time of a private-vehicle commute by approximately
             8.5 minutes (14 percent) during the AM peak hour. Based on a 0.76 elasticity between
             vehicle volume and travel time reduction1, a 14 percent improvement in travel time would
             increase peak-hour travel demand by about 11 percent during the AM peak hour.

             The majority of the peak hour traffic volume increase would be trips that shift their trip
             times from off-peak periods to peak periods. Assuming 2/3 of the traffic is simply shifted
             times and 1/3 is new trips, the net new traffic demand increase would be 3.7 percent.

             Similar assumptions suggest a 4.8 percent increase in PM peak hour travel demand.

 Since typical daily and peak hour traffic volumes can vary by as much as ten percent on a daily
 basis, any induced demand effects of the project would be negligible. We recognize that the
 assumptions above are from very generalized information and should be used cautiously.
 However, they do form a helpful basis for which to make conclusions about the general benefits
 of the project.

 PROJECT BENEFITS TO TRANSIT

 In addition to reducing GHG emissions, the project would also improve travel times. While the
 travel time benefits to autos were described in the project's traffic operations report, this section

 1
     Victoria Transport Policy Institute (VTPI) On-line TDM Encyclopedia (http://www.vtpi.org/tdm/tdm11.htm)
Mr. Joe Hurley
December 8, 2009
Page 6 of 11




quantifies and describes the benefits that travel time savings would have to transit routes
operating along the corridor.

In year 2035 conditions, the project would decrease the northbound travel time along SR 1 in the
AM peak hour from 12.6 minutes to 4.5 minutes, a savings of 8.1 minutes, and would decrease
the southbound travel time along SR 1 during the PM peak hour from 15.4 minutes to 4.2
minutes, a savings of 11.2 minutes.

The per-mile operating costs for the three peak-hour routes along this corridor, the 110, the 112,
and CX, have an average operating cost of $4.60 per mile. Average run speeds were calculated
using schedule data for travel time, and came out to approximately 12 miles per hour for Route
112, 17 miles per hour for Route 110, and 25 miles per hour for Route CX. Multiplying the
average run speeds by the cost per mile for each route yielded an average per-hour cost of $89
during the AM peak hour and $91 during the PM peak hour.

With the planned elimination of Route DX, there will be five northbound buses through the
corridor during the AM peak hour and five southbound buses through the PM peak hour. An
expected daily cost savings can be acquired by multiplying the number of buses by the hourly
operating costs of each bus, and by the hours of travel time the project would save. This process
yields an expected weekday cost savings of $146 during the two-hour AM peak period and $180
during the PM peak period. Extrapolated out over an entire year, this sums to approximately
$84,000 of cost savings for Samtrans due to congestion reduction during weekday peak hours in
the peak direction.

POTENTIAL TRANSIT CAPACITY EXPANSION

Currently, there are approximately 345     transit riders along the study corridor in the peak
northbound direction during the two-hour   AM peak period (excluding school trips on Route 16,
which operates a unique local service).     A similar number of riders travel through the study
corridor during the PM peak period. This   equates to ridership of approximately 175 passengers
per hour.

With elimination of Route DX, there will be five northbound buses and five southbound buses
along the study corridor during the AM and PM peak hours, which represents a capacity of 275
passengers per hour.

With the project, approximately 93 percent of the peak hourly vehicle demand would be served in
2035 plus project conditions. The CCC has posed the question as to whether operating
additional transit service would reduce travel demand such that the facility would serve 100
percent of demand with the project. To do this, transit service, therefore, would need to reduce
the overall demand to 93 percent of currently projected levels. This corresponds to a needed
reduction of 258 northbound private vehicles during the AM peak hour and 224 southbound
private vehicles during the PM peak hour. Assuming the average vehicle occupancy along the
corridor is 1.6 people per auto, based on the National Household Travel Behavior Survey, the
enhancements in transit service would need to generate 413 new riders in the AM peak hour and
358 new riders in the PM peak hour. In other words, transit ridership would need to increase to
588 riders in the AM peak hour, a 336 percent increase, and to 533 in the PM peak hour, a 305
percent increase over existing conditions.
Mr. Joe Hurley
December 8, 2009
Page 7 of 11




A study conducted by the Victoria Transport Policy Institute presents a range of elasticity values
relating changes in transit capacity and transit ridership. A conservative estimate shows an
elasticity of 0.5, which would mean that a 10% increase in transit capacity would yield a 5%
increase in transit ridership. To achieve the ridership increases necessary to accommodate
unserved demand under conditions with the proposed project, transit capacity would need to
increase by 672 percent in the AM peak hour and 610 percent in the PM peak hour. This
corresponds to the addition of approximately 31 northbound buses of 55 seats each during the
AM peak hour, and 34 southbound buses during the PM peak hour.

This level of transit service would be cost-prohibitive, and even if financially feasible, would not be
the best use of scarce transit operating funds.

RESPONSE TO SPECIFIC COMMENTS

In addition to the information described above, we have prepared specific responses to ten
questions raised by the CCC in response to a letter prepared by the SMCTA. The Coastal
Commission's comments and our discussion follow.

1. Page 2 of the October 2008 Transit Analysis states that while additional fixed route
   service may relieve congestion by reducing VMT, "additional analysis would need to
   be undertaken to determine whether the existing service would be both optimal and
   cost effective." As I noted above, we understand that much of this information is
   currently available and ask that you provide such an analysis.

Additional transit service could potentially reduce VMT, but the reductions would be minimal
relative to the cost of the service. Since funding for transit operation is scarce, changes to transit
service requiring additional operational funding should be targeted to those areas where the
scarce resources produce the highest return on investment (i.e., ridership).

As described above and summarized on Table 2, the existing transit services have excess
capacity. Routes offering scheduled service from regional Park & Ride lots in Pacifica to regional
transit hubs are typically underutilized (generally less than 50 percent utilized). As a result,
expanding transit service would not provide a significant VMT reduction.

Further, an expansion of transit service would neither generate enough reduction in auto traffic to
either meet the purpose and need of the proposed project, nor to reduce the footprint of the
project. To illustrate, consider the number of current transit riders in the AM and PM peak hours.
The AM peak hour consists of 518 total northbound riders. If riders from Route 16 are removed
(since they are associated with school service only), the northbound non-school ridership is 345
passengers in the two-hour peak, or 173 riders per hour. In the PM peak hour, southbound
ridership is similar, at 350 riders in the two-hour peak, or 175 per hour.

Based on information provided by the Victoria Transport Policy Institute's (VTPI) TDM
Encyclopedia, typical transit ridership elasticity relative to transit capacity is approximately 0.5.
This means that every time transit capacity is doubled, on average, ridership would increase by
50 percent. Assuming that funds were available to double transit service through he study
corridor, a 50 percent increase in peak hour ridership would mean approximately 88 new riders in
each peak hour and direction. Assuming a standard vehicle occupancy of 1.6, based on the
National Household Travel Survey, this would translate to a reduction of 55 vehicles in the
northbound direction in the AM peak hour and 55 vehicles in the southbound direction in the PM
Mr. Joe Hurley
December 8, 2009
Page 8 of 11




peak hour. This would be a 1.5 percent reduction in peak direction vehicle travel demand during
the AM and PM peak hours, respectively. Given typical daily fluctuations in traffic volumes, which
can approach 10 percent, this substantial increase in transit service would produce a negligible
reduction in congestion and overall auto travel demand.

Finally, this comment requests information that may be readily available related to an analysis of
the cost-effectiveness of increased transit in the study area. As noted below in Comment 9,
Samtrans is currently initiating a Comprehensive Operational Analysis that will look at
systemwide operating effectiveness; however, that data will not be available for some time.

2. Page 2 also says that increased transit would not likely be effective because the
   surrounding communities are low density. However, transit may be made more
   effective in low density communities with various additional amenities such as shuttle
   service and commuter parking lots at transit stations. Therefore, please include in the
   analysis measures that would be necessary to increase the effectiveness of transit
   services given the residential density of Pacifica.

In lower-density residential areas, such as the coastal areas of San Mateo County, typical
amenities to encourage transit include Park & Ride lots, shuttles to regional transit connections
(e.g., BART, Caltrain), express service to job centers, and construction of transit-stop amenities
such as curb bulb-outs to increase sidewalk widths or covered pedestrian shelters.

Many of these features are provided throughout the area, but are not fully utilized. For example,
the existing park and ride lots at Crespi and Linda Mar Avenues are only 44 percent utilized2. Of
this amount, anecdotal evidence suggests that a large portion of those vehicles that do park at
the Park & Ride lots are using the lots for beach access, and not for commuting. This suggests
that provision of additional Park & Ride lot capacity would not increase transit ridership in the
area. Further, Table 2 illustrates that even with these amenities, transit service throughout the
corridor is underutilized.

Routes 294, 110, 112, and CX all provide direct connections from outer areas to regional transit
hubs. However, as presented earlier in this letter, those routes are not well-utilized, and provision
of additional service would not increase ridership substantially.

Transit oriented amenities, such as express service, park & ride lots, and shuttles are an
important part of encouraging transit ridership in lower-density areas. Those services are already
in place, and data suggests that adding capacity in the immediate area of the project would not
substantially increase transit ridership to a quantity that would justify the cost and impact of the
additional amenities.

3. We recall at our previous meeting that you said you would submit the traffic counts
   from south of Crespi, so that we may get a better sense of how many cars are traveling
   to the area from south of Pacifica. Please provide Commission staff with those traffic
   counts.

These counts are attached to this letter in Appendix A. The counts generally indicate that
approximately 25 percent of peak hour traffic traveling through the study corridor is from SR 1
south of Linda Mar Avenue.

2
    Based on a September 2009 weekday count after 9 AM
Mr. Joe Hurley
December 8, 2009
Page 9 of 11




4. It appears that a large portion of the congestion comes from traffic generation south of
   Fassler Avenue. Please include an analysis of the feasibility of increasing transit
   services from south of the project site to job centers, including from Montara and
   HMB.

Route 294 currently operates between the Linda Mar Park & Ride and the Hillsdale Caltrain
Station. Potential riders can take this route north, to connect with express bus service to BART
stations, or southeast, to connect with Caltrain. Since this route operates at less than 50 percent
capacity during both peak hours, it suggests that, while additional service may increase ridership
marginally, it would not have a substantial effect at reducing overall traffic generation. For
example, even if transit ridership on the corridor serving areas south of Pacifica were doubled or
even tripled, the result would be a reduction in auto travel of less than 30 vehicles per hour. This
would have a negligible effect at overall congestion reduction, but would come at considerable
cost to Samtrans.

Secondly, as also noted earlier, the severe financial constraints of operating a transit agency
generally require that transit investments be made in higher-density areas where there are more
potential riders to get the greatest reduction in traffic, or to provide life-line systems that provide
the only means of transportation for transit-dependent individuals. Although like most transit
operators today, Samtrans is currently looking for ways to cut its budget rather than increase it,
should funds become available for additional transit services, the areas south of the project site
would not be the most efficient target for service improvements to maximize the overall transit
ridership.

5. Please provide a more complete analysis of the feasibility of providing additional
   school service as a way to reduce VMTs. Is there demand for additional service? If
   so, what measures could be implemented to feasibly meet this demand? In addition,
   please explain the statement in the transit analysis that additional service provided to
   the area would require a reduction elsewhere in the system.

Based on ridership numbers presented by SamTrans, while the school "tripper" service does
operate at higher capacity levels than other service in the area, it is not operating at levels high
enough to suggest demand is being suppressed by limited capacity. Therefore, providing
increased service would not produce a substantial increase in riders compared to the existing
situation. Additionally, school traffic typically affects only the morning peak period. Providing
additional tripper service would not provide any effect to the severe PM peak period congestion in
the area.

Finally, the previous memo prepared by Samtrans noted that additional service provided to this
area would require a reduction somewhere else in the system. That statement was made in
recognition that Samtrans operates with a very limited and fixed budget. In order to fund service
enhancements in the study area, cost savings would likely have to be made in other locations.
Given the discussion and analysis above regarding the efficacy of enhanced transit service in this
study area, this trade-off would be undesirable.
Mr. Joe Hurley
December 8, 2009
Page 10 of 11




6. Please provide an analysis of the feasibility and benefits (including estimated
   reduction of VMT) that would result from developing a formal carpooling and rideshare
   program. This analysis should include the reduction in congestion that could be
   expected to result from a carpool program in combination with an HOV lane.

The San Mateo County Transportation Authority already operates a formal carpooling and
rideshare program. Further, new developments are required to participate in the program and to
provide additional "Transportation Demand Management" (TDM) measures to reduce peak period
automobile travel. Therefore, the benefits of such programs are already realized. Without them,
conditions would be worse than those analyzed.

Further, we have examined the feasibility of converting one of the proposed travel lanes in the
study corridor to an HOV lane. Implementing an HOV lane for such a short roadway segment
would not be practical. To be beneficial, HOV lanes typically need to be implemented over much
longer distances to provide sufficient benefit to justify their cost. In addition, the existing project
configuration will present some geometric design and operational challenges in terms of providing
separation from the HOV lanes and turn lanes at the intersections within the project area. Setting
aside the above geometric challenges, we have considered two possible HOV lane bypass
scenarios.

First, if the currently-proposed footprint of the project were maintained, vehicle queuing would be
similar to that identified for the "No Project" scenario. Therefore, all vehicles would have to wait in
relatively long queues approaching the widened roadway. HOV's would be able to bypass the
portion of the queue where the roadway is currently proposed to be widened. The travel time
benefits of this small queue bypass would be relatively small (likely less than 5 percent of total trip
times), and not enough to cause a mode shift, in which more people would carpool. Therefore,
the project would incur the same construction cost and overall increases to the roadway footprint
as currently proposed, but with benefits limited to a small group of users.

The second scenario would involve constructing the HOV lane to bypass the entirety of the
queue. This would provide substantial travel time advantages for HOV's over SOV's. However,
the shift in the number of people who carpool versus existing conditions would be relatively small,
and the overall size and cost of the project would be substantially larger. Because this would
increase the overall amount of pavement for a relatively small benefit, this scenario would not be
desirable.

Therefore, neither of the HOV lane scenarios appears to be viable.

7. Please provide a transit map that shows all of the mentioned routes, and show how the
   school routes work to serve the school.

A transit map is provided in Appendix B.
Mr. Joe Hurley
December 8, 2009
Page 11 of 11




8. Please explain how the average weekday ridership figures are determined, and the
   time range that the figures represent (e.g. are they monthly figures? Yearly? Are 2008
   and 2009 represented?)

The average weekday ridership figures presented in previous memo were average daily
boardings. These volumes were compared to more recent data, collected in April 2009, and were
found to be similar. Table 1 shows the average weekday ridership figures from the month of April
2009.

9. What is the status of the SamTrans comprehensive operational analysis (COA)? And,
   are there any updates to the traffic analysis emanating from this work?

The SamTrans Comprehensive Operational Analysis (COA) is still in the scoping phase to
determine metrics such as cost effectiveness, service coverage, headways, and frequency for
transit service. The service evaluation is expected to begin in February 2010 and last for 12
months, with the implementation plan to follow in February 2011.

10. Finally, how does the Transportation Authority view this project in relation to the
    various pieces of recent legislation calling for the reduction of greenhouse gases (e.g.
    AB 32, SB 375, etc.)?

As discussed under the supplemental simulation analysis, this project is forecasted to reduce
overall GHG emissions because it would improve overall traffic stability and reducing idling or
traveling at low speeds.



We hope you have found this information useful. We look forward to meeting with you and the
CCC on Monday, December 14 to discuss this information.

Sincerely,

FEHR & PEERS




Chris Mitchell, P.E.
Senior Associate



Matt Plumb, P.E.
Transportation Engineer

SF07-0312
                                     To Daly City and
                                     San Francisco




                                       Terra Nova
                                       High School




                                                        SOURCE: SamTrans, 2007.

                                                          SR 1 Calera Parkway PA-ED




                                                  PACIFICA BUS ROUTES
December 2009                                                            FIGURE 1
SF07-0312\graphics\SF07-0312_1_Bus
                                                                                                                       EventCount-1687 Page 1

                                                           Traffic Data Service
                                                              Event Counts
EventCount-1687 -- English (ENU)

Datasets:
Site:                       [1N] NB SR 1 N/O FASSLER AVE
Input A:                    1 - North bound. - Added to totals. (1)
Input B:                    3 - South bound. - Excluded from totals. (0)
Name:                       Traffic Data Service
Scheme:                     Count events divided by two.
Units:                      Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)

* Tuesday, January 23, 2007=22951, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400        0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   59    33    35    77 170       672 1722 2804 2318 1578 1211 1174 1144 1160 1383 1505 1371 1398 1081 646 546 424 264 176
   18    13    10    13     19     95 309 665 671 468 292 296 285 293 321 419 348 385 307 200 134 123                   84   48   30
   19     5     9    23     35    155 383 737 610 402 325 294 270 278 299 351 324 349 264 160 140 100                   69   58   14
   12     7     8    24     46    199 496 718 540 387 292 295 317 292 371 379 351 341 264 148 141 127                   61   40   14
   10     8     8    17     70    223 534 684 497 321 302 289 272 297 392 356 348 323 246 138 131                  74   50   30   11
AM Peak 0715 - 0815 (2810), AM   PHF=0.95 PM Peak 1445 - 1545 (1541), PM PHF=0.92

* Wednesday, January 24, 2007=22840, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400        0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   69    53    41    90 185       669 1705 2827 2346 1439 1233 1145 1167 1246 1304 1414 1308 1390 1169 674 499 418 273 176
   30    18     5    12     25     87 289 661 635 382 282 278 270 300 308 424 329 352 331 199 107 138                   74   58   32
   14    11    12    23     37    155 379 743 677 377 323 284 298 321 320 342 312 346 320 183 125                  98   84   49   11
   14    12    13    32     60    208 480 716 568 374 320 271 288 323 294 353 324 358 287 168 123 113                   69   36   11
   11    12    11    23     63    219 557 707 466 306 308 312 311 302 382 295 343 334 231 124 144                  69   46   33   20
AM Peak 0700 - 0800 (2827), AM   PHF=0.95 PM Peak 1445 - 1545 (1501), PM PHF=0.89

* Thursday, January 25, 2007=22712, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400        0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   74    38    36    77 182       652 1653 2783 2306 1456 1196 1134 1108 1174 1370 1539 1262 1392 1084 692 575 466 274 189
   32     9     5    14     29     94 284 685 647 424 299 281 272 282 295 438 332 337 285 204 153 146                   87   48   32
   11    12    10    20     34    151 376 694 641 365 313 289 284 295 312 366 290 355 294 195 147 107                   83   60   20
   11     8    10    22     47    203 487 739 540 344 279 279 291 305 357 369 330 355 285 145 140 121                   58   48   18
   20     9    11    21     72    204 506 665 478 323 305 285 261 292 406 366 310 345 220 148 135                  92   46   33   14
AM Peak 0700 - 0800 (2783), AM   PHF=0.94 PM Peak 1445 - 1545 (1579), PM PHF=0.90

* Friday, January 26, 2007=22960, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400        0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   84    46    46    77 164       642 1572 2566 2371 1433 1273 1156 1150 1239 1343 1470 1217 1350 1160 863 578 510 371 279
   32    10    10    10     26    103 306 634 646 373 302 300 253 314 295 458 325 376 324 259 157 164 106                    83   56
   20    13    12    17     28    134 358 651 653 370 315 284 281 302 292 362 280 322 323 216 125 109                   99   83   43
   18    17    13    28     52    227 424 691 605 346 333 281 317 310 371 321 289 342 252 188 153 118                   86   55   47
   14     6    11    22     58    178 484 590 467 344 323 291 299 313 385 329 323 310 261 200 143 119                   80   58   30
AM Peak 0730 - 0830 (2580), AM   PHF=0.93 PM Peak 1430 - 1530 (1576), PM PHF=0.86

* Saturday, January 27, 2007=19750, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
  176    87    68    56     73 178 409 564 1036 1281 1480 1663 1611 1535 1464 1437 1475 1399 1142 723 545 584 413 351
   56    26    28    13     17   31   79 103 211 287 358 361 379 397 378 387 393 342 314 209 141 166 113              91          64
   43    34    12     9     15   24 100 139 263 304 323 449 424 387 369 375 367 376 304 197 140 136 119 105                       69
   47    16    12    24     17   62 111 155 281 358 402 423 381 382 334 353 368 341 278 153 133 148              96   84          46
   30    11    16    10     24   61 119 167 281 332 397 430 427 369 383 322 347 340 246 164 131 134              85   71          57
AM Peak 1115 - 1215 (1681), AM PHF=0.94 PM Peak 1215 - 1315 (1629), PM PHF=0.95

* Sunday, January 28, 2007=17782, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
  236 128      75    73     55 112 223 374 574 986 1294 1454 1604 1601 1554 1598 1458 1307 1006 744 530 391 244 161
   64    38    20    20     13   22   35   69 111 204 309 341 388 396 398 374 378 320 274 197 134 110            76   47          25
   69    33    15    15     15   26   58   80 124 222 291 368 396 427 393 433 356 348 286 215 154 113            78   45          19
   46    28    22    20      9   29   72 106 170 269 356 380 410 384 371 432 371 341 227 159 127            87   48   44          11
   57    29    18    18     18   35   58 119 169 291 338 365 410 394 392 359 353 298 219 173 115            81   42   25          15
AM Peak 1145 - 1245 (1559), AM PHF=0.95 PM Peak 1230 - 1330 (1643), PM PHF=0.96

* Monday, January 29, 2007=21726, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400        0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   70    52    44    89 168       614 1574 2736 2275 1404 1211 1056 1115 1135 1365 1449 1215 1312 1018 614 452 377 233 148
   25     9    16    18     31     80 266 644 650 375 289 273 259 271 295 422 312 303 300 185 142 123                   79   39   16
   19    19     6    27     33    163 364 717 630 342 309 278 268 287 304 358 301 324 266 154 101                  94   60   47   17
   11    13     8    23     42    179 461 698 533 367 308 248 292 282 365 352 272 336 234 145 102                  81   55   33   13
   15    11    14    21     62    192 483 677 462 320 305 257 296 295 401 317 330 349 218 130 107                  79   39   29   12
AM Peak 0715 - 0815 (2742), AM   PHF=0.96 PM Peak 1430 - 1530 (1546), PM PHF=0.92
                                                                                                                EventCount-1689 Page 1

                                                    Traffic Data Service
                                                       Event Counts
EventCount-1689 -- English (ENU)

Datasets:
Site:                   [2N] NB SR 1 S/O LINDA MAR AVE
Input A:                1 - North bound. - Added to totals. (1)
Input B:                0 - Unused or unknown. - Excluded from totals. (0)
Name:                   Traffic Data Service
Scheme:                 Count events divided by two.
Units:                  Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)

* Tuesday, January 23, 2007=5809, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   19     4     7    18     45 156 413 578 522 436 333 344 306 324 351 399 412 412 313 147              88  84   63   35
    7     2     2     2      6   20   76 144 127        92    79    87   87   74 109  83 106 112  72 46 27  33   30   12   9
    9     0     3     9      7   34 109 159 130 116           81    89   77   80  83  98  94 108 109 47 26  13   13   14   3
    1     1     2     3     12   52 115 144 121 118           83    78   71   69  74 127 112 105  83 31 19  25   10    6   4
    2     1     0     4     20   50 113 131 144 110           90    90   71 101   85  91 100  87  49 23 16  13   10    3   8
AM Peak 0700 - 0800 (578), AM PHF=0.91 PM Peak 1630 - 1730 (432), PM PHF=0.96

* Wednesday, January 24, 2007=5795, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   24    13    13    19     47 154 418 635 484 426 377 335 308 309 335 379 398 415 295 144             90   88   60   29
    9     8     1     3      7   18   81 155 127 101          91    71   84   76  72  79  95  95 92 41 19   33   18    8   3
    3     1     2     5      9   41 100 168 118 119 100             88   74   86  83  88  98 100 83 44 26   15   13    6   1
    4     3     4     9     23   49 105 171 132 102           87    82   69   75  76 103 102 104 73 30 21   26   18    8   2
    8     1     6     2      8   46 132 141 107 104           99    94   81   72 104 109 103 116 47 29 24   14   11    7   5
AM Peak 0700 - 0800 (635), AM PHF=0.93 PM Peak 1700 - 1800 (415), PM PHF=0.89

* Thursday, January 25, 2007=5762, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   11     3     9    23     42 157 413 642 506 420 354 333 290 324 337 393 368 408 292 175 104              74   47   37
    3     2     1     5      8   18   67 155 125        94    87    66   62   82 90  96  93 100 69 47  26   18   10    7   8
    1     0     3     7      6   43 105 182 150 116           93    99 100    67 77  87  92  99 89 56  35   20   12   16   5
    2     1     3     5     11   45 116 147 121 108           78    88   65   95 93 104  81  98 74 31  28   15   18    7   4
    5     0     2     6     17   51 125 158 110 102           96    80   63   80 77 106 102 111 60 41  15   21    7    7   6
AM Peak 0700 - 0800 (642), AM PHF=0.88 PM Peak 1700 - 1800 (408), PM PHF=0.92

* Friday, January 26, 2007=6091, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   23     9     8    20     39 165 373 543 505 390 385 366 384 396 352 380 383 467 310 233 121              92   87   60
    8     2     3     4      6   28   83 136 145        99    96    91   99 115  81 102  79 113 79 49  32   16   26   21   9
    5     1     1     8      5   34   90 144 109        94    95    81 100 101   88  80 100 127 84 65  30   33   25   12   6
    4     4     4     5     10   56   95 140 122        91 101 101       94   86 86  93  99 130 84 60  31   22   17   17   7
    6     2     0     3     18   47 105 123 129 106           93    93   91   94 97 105 105  97 63 59  28   21   19   10   7
AM Peak 0715 - 0815 (552), AM PHF=0.95 PM Peak 1645 - 1745 (475), PM PHF=0.91

* Saturday, January 27, 2007=6085, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   29    23    11    15     15   46 103 153 264 386 403 534 511 557 506 549 466 454 352 211 164 148 110               75
    9     5     4     4      6    9   16   26    69     78 104 120 121 135 133 154 134 121    87  69   40   57   43   23   15
    6    12     1     3      3    8   30   41    66     94    93 134 115 151 113 142 104 118 100  49   38   25   31   28   11
    7     3     1     5      4   11   26   34    66 117       99 135 134 140 112 118 112 108  90  47   58   31   15   11    6
    7     3     5     3      2   18   31   52    63     97 107 145 141 131 148 135 116 107    75  46   28   35   21   13    7
AM Peak 1115 - 1215 (535), AM PHF=0.92 PM Peak 1245 - 1345 (567), PM PHF=0.94

* Sunday, January 28, 2007=6080, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   39    18    26    16     13   23   59   93 171 295 425 459 532 542 649 672 585 532 356 218 134 114            67   42
   15     4     5     6      2    6   10   18    31     68 105 103 112 122 161 166 128 128    99  53   35   25   21   11   6
   11     5    10     3      2    6   17   19    34     79    95 108 145 145 174 204 161 126 110  69   42   34   22   15   7
    6     3     6     4      4    5   14   35    57     73    95 110 139 153 177 166 144 150  68  51   40   30   13   12   3
    7     6     5     3      5    6   18   21    49     75 130 138 136 122 137 136 152 128    79  45   17   25   11    4   3
AM Peak 1145 - 1245 (534), AM PHF=0.92 PM Peak 1430 - 1530 (684), PM PHF=0.84

* Monday, January 29, 2007=5675, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   19     9     8    21     42 151 412 606 500 373 389 325 306 321 391 414 364 365 283 133             88   82   49   24
    6     2     2     3      7   22   82 138 135        97 106      88   78   62  79 108  92  78 77 39 20   23   15    2   5
    7     4     0    11      4   30   96 169 105        96    81    91   78   99  98 110  85  83 84 37 23   25   14   10   6
    3     2     3     6     15   46 110 149 141 106           95    82   77   92 109  96  86 125 75 27 17   18   12    9   6
    3     1     3     1     16   53 124 150 119         74 107      64   73   68 105 100 101  79 47 30 28   16    8    3   2
AM Peak 0700 - 0800 (606), AM PHF=0.90 PM Peak 1430 - 1530 (432), PM PHF=0.98
                                                                                                                EventCount-1688 Page 1

                                                    Traffic Data Service
                                                       Event Counts
EventCount-1688 -- English (ENU)

Datasets:
Site:                   [1S] SB SR 1 N/O FASSLER AVE
Input A:                1 - North bound. - Excluded from totals. (0)
Input B:                3 - South bound. - Added to totals. (1)
Name:                   Traffic Data Service
Scheme:                 Count events divided by two.
Units:                  Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)

* Tuesday, January 23, 2007=22836, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
  143    61    56    49     56 148 382 962 1194 871 891 1077 1181 1214 1679 2112 2372 2616 2106 1253 920 746 499 248
   47    18    13    12     10   20   44 156 294 240 207 256 281 285 337 495 574 689 561 385 250 226 139              87   34
   40    13    11    18     16   19   76 211 297 211 246 274 311 308 404 529 571 645 578 319 258 161 143              58   40
   34    13    16    11      6   65   94 325 307 220 216 254 299 313 432 531 605 692 478 287 248 182 110              60   32
   22    17    16     8     24   44 168 270 296 200 222 293 290 308 506 557 622 590 489 262 164 177 107               43   29
AM Peak 0800 - 0900 (1194), AM PHF=0.97 PM Peak 1645 - 1745 (2648), PM PHF=0.96

* Wednesday, January 24, 2007=22804, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
  135    87    53    39     58 127 356 963 1047 877 891 1087 1171 1414 1600 2006 2422 2512 2035 1327 1020 800 487 290
   34    20    15     7     11   18   49 161 266 252 218 257 288 310 371 467 527 628 566 400 279 213 188              99   42
   40    24    13    14     19   14   73 207 271 186 235 288 296 329 384 512 601 637 528 338 288 190 110              76   46
   32    19    14    13     15   57 105 318 261 204 206 236 298 388 416 483 619 627 460 306 239 220              95   54   34
   29    24    11     5     13   38 129 277 249 235 232 306 289 387 429 544 675 620 481 283 214 177              94   61   35
AM Peak 1145 - 1245 (1188), AM PHF=0.97 PM Peak 1645 - 1745 (2567), PM PHF=0.95

* Thursday, January 25, 2007=22698, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
  157    91    46    29     60 115 380 966 1103 833 902 1000 1182 1282 1649 2029 2348 2471 1992 1334 1027 866 525 311
   42    33    17    12     14   13   62 161 282 216 239 227 282 320 398 485 558 654 579 407 257 232 159              91   40
   46    22     8     6     16   23   84 197 302 170 230 231 293 303 391 543 612 630 513 348 278 217 151              78   60
   34    18     9     6     13   37 100 334 269 212 195 257 279 348 428 511 581 637 499 301 262 210 112               66   36
   35    18    12     5     17   42 134 274 250 235 238 285 328 311 432 490 597 550 401 278 230 207 103               76   25
AM Peak 0730 - 0830 (1192), AM PHF=0.89 PM Peak 1645 - 1745 (2518), PM PHF=0.96

* Friday, January 26, 2007=23279, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
  161 107      68    40     73 147 376 954 1141 905 938 1060 1205 1353 1523 2162 2257 2431 2150 1519 907 745 601 456
   40    28    22    11     12   20   50 144 252 229 232 231 320 313 333 520 530 575 654 466 256 203 179 126               80
   60    31    13    11     12   23   81 190 314 208 237 270 297 329 395 577 570 591 545 367 218 192 141 129               88
   36    29    20     6     25   47 103 337 287 230 256 257 284 328 367 521 576 622 519 351 201 186 142               96   51
   25    19    13    12     24   57 142 283 288 238 213 302 304 383 428 544 581 643 432 335 232 164 139 105                76
AM Peak 1145 - 1245 (1203), AM PHF=0.94 PM Peak 1715 - 1815 (2510), PM PHF=0.96

* Saturday, January 27, 2007=19976, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
  295 178 132        68     56   67 202 374 685 891 1184 1438 1535 1620 1603 1745 1693 1468 1177 981 744 644 701 495
   80    58    35    21     14   12   28   62 137 218 299 324 341 372 430 436 436 397 336 267 205 174 155 153              100
   88    53    40    12     13   13   44   81 145 214 284 363 408 402 390 438 452 351 291 282 200 138 193 127               78
   51    37    28    14     13   23   65   88 183 232 287 391 378 418 387 412 404 382 273 221 168 171 170 120               83
   76    30    29    21     16   19   65 143 220 227 314 360 408 428 396 459 401 338 277 211 171 161 183              95    76
AM Peak 1130 - 1230 (1500), AM PHF=0.92 PM Peak 1530 - 1630 (1759), PM PHF=0.96

* Sunday, January 28, 2007=18056, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
  337 181 155        82     56   65 128 279 495 772 1055 1348 1598 1672 1694 1645 1527 1414 1036 788 654 493 373 209
  100    53    29    28     20   18   17   60    76 180 237 302 392 409 456 423 384 354 283 219 181 147 125           71   51
   78    49    49    20     13    9   27   72 124 167 248 355 384 386 380 440 384 380 255 212 155 122            86   46   34
   83    40    38    19     12   20   35   65 135 182 263 334 403 421 454 397 414 348 240 170 149 113            99   64   31
   76    39    39    15     11   18   49   82 160 243 307 357 419 456 404 385 345 332 258 187 169 111            63   28   29
AM Peak 1145 - 1245 (1536), AM PHF=0.95 PM Peak 1345 - 1445 (1746), PM PHF=0.96

* Monday, January 29, 2007=21883, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
  145    59    50    39     44 153 390 910 1133 815 915 1024 1148 1214 1569 2128 2284 2431 1986 1285 805 705 421 230
   51    19    13    14      7   17   57 134 292 234 215 229 293 281 339 499 528 603 552 378 235 174 134              62   34
   34    16    14    11      7   30   75 188 318 193 218 248 262 321 409 560 571 624 540 369 242 203 120              68   43
   31    10     9     7     15   59   95 324 258 197 239 256 302 299 363 514 573 615 465 300 171 183             88   58   31
   29    14    14     7     15   47 163 264 265 191 243 291 291 313 458 555 612 589 429 238 157 145              79   42   28
AM Peak 0730 - 0830 (1198), AM PHF=0.92 PM Peak 1645 - 1745 (2454), PM PHF=0.98
                                                                                                                EventCount-1690 Page 1

                                                    Traffic Data Service
                                                       Event Counts
EventCount-1690 -- English (ENU)

Datasets:
Site:                   [2S] SB SR 1 S/O LINDA MAR AVE
Input A:                3 - South bound. - Added to totals. (1)
Input B:                0 - Unused or unknown. - Excluded from totals. (0)
Name:                   Traffic Data Service
Scheme:                 Count events divided by two.
Units:                  Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)

* Tuesday, January 23, 2007=5988, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   29    14    13    15     19   62 136 271 284 274 274 342 319 363 403 487 581 643 528 340 217 199 113               62
   10     8     3     7      2    8   19   54    61     76    49    62   75   82  80 119 134 175 142 118 66 61   30   27   11
    6     1     4     4      4    9   25   47    75     67    68 100     86 102 114 119 144 136 155   89 61 41   31   13    8
    9     2     4     1      4   31   37   97    64     69    85    82   73   90 122 123 149 167 125  71 55 51   27   15    5
    4     3     2     3      9   14   55   73    84     62    72    98   85   89  87 126 154 165 106  62 35 46   25    7    5
AM Peak 1115 - 1215 (355), AM PHF=0.89 PM Peak 1700 - 1800 (643), PM PHF=0.92

* Wednesday, January 24, 2007=5947, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   29    21    16     9     21   54 133 244 277 257 305 310 327 398 415 520 555 617 501 303 254 201 106               74
   11     3     5     2      2    6   16   61    61     73    72    72   91   98 115 116 135 165 123 99 67  53   29   27   13
    8     8     2     1      5    8   26   58    79     54    82    90   64   89  99 118 119 147 131 75 77  43   27   25    7
    5     3     6     4      9   26   47   59    74     53    74    72   89 112   95 128 146 153 123 66 66  58   30   14    7
    5     7     3     2      5   14   44   66    63     77    77    76   83   99 106 158 155 152 124 63 44  47   20    8   10
AM Peak 1115 - 1215 (329), AM PHF=0.90 PM Peak 1645 - 1745 (620), PM PHF=0.94

* Thursday, January 25, 2007=5952, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   37    20    14    12     16   48 139 284 328 274 281 314 320 388 388 476 522 594 476 335 265 218 132               71
   13     7     5     5      1    4   25   67    79     68    80    82   76   95  91 100 112 185 128 126 67 48   42   26    7
    7     4     3     2      4    9   37   69    94     50    68    76   84   93 104 122 125 125 122  76 76 59   37   15   10
    7     3     1     3      5   20   39   76    71     67    76    80   81 111   95 130 128 139 134  79 71 51   28   14   18
   10     6     5     2      6   15   38   72    84     89    57    76   79   89  98 124 157 145  92  54 51 60   25   16    8
AM Peak 0800 - 0900 (328), AM PHF=0.87 PM Peak 1645 - 1745 (606), PM PHF=0.82

* Friday, January 26, 2007=6671, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   43    28    10     5     21   60 148 265 272 285 308 340 400 388 408 509 637 766 719 430 214 169 146 100
    7     6     0     3      1    7   17   43    64     51    69    78 101 106 106 101 139 182 222 152  53  47   44   33   26
   10     9     1     1      3   15   37   63    71     68    73    98 102    92 112 141 153 171 203 99 56  46   33   31   22
   18     6     7     0      9   24   41   82    80     86 102      86 111    92  82 140 181 224 159 98 58  40   42   15   10
    8     7     2     1      8   14   53   77    57     80    64    78   86   98 108 127 164 189 135 81 47  36   27   21   14
AM Peak 1145 - 1245 (392), AM PHF=0.88 PM Peak 1730 - 1830 (838), PM PHF=0.94

* Saturday, January 27, 2007=6248, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   72    36    28    20     19   34   73 143 206 300 411 480 513 586 530 541 544 408 341 233 179 180 234 137
   26    12     7     7      7    4   10   36    31     67    99 116 116 133 126 126 154 102 104  67   62   49   50   44   28
   22     9     6     4      2    7   17   19    61     70 107 102 143 148 149 151 140    98  80  70   36   40   75   40   20
   10     6    10     4      6   11   17   44    55     78    99 137 125 162 127 145 128 113  84  52   42   46   50   31   19
   14     9     5     5      4   12   29   44    59     85 106 125 129 143 128 119 122    95  73  44   39   45   59   22   15
AM Peak 1130 - 1230 (521), AM PHF=0.91 PM Peak 1300 - 1400 (586), PM PHF=0.90

* Sunday, January 28, 2007=6198, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   82    32    40    23     17   15   53   90 148 265 414 541 660 674 600 589 527 436 306 210 183 134 102             57
   28    14    10     6      3    2    9   12    24     64    75 119 156 133 156 151 148 107 97   46   42   33   34   28   11
   20     7    11     7      6    3   12   24    39     66    95 124 148 183 156 165 123 115 70   62   38   33   30    7   13
   19     5    10     8      5    7   18   24    46     67 118 153 165 178 149 145 135 109   68   48   41   38   18   16    5
   15     6     9     2      3    3   14   30    39     68 126 145 191 180 139 128 121 105   71   54   62   30   20    6    5
AM Peak 1145 - 1245 (614), AM PHF=0.93 PM Peak 1315 - 1415 (697), PM PHF=0.95

* Monday, January 29, 2007=5837, 15 minute drops
 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300
   34    10    13    12     14   59 168 202 281 259 322 346 347 386 348 503 547 606 482 350 202 174 119               53
   11     3     4     3      0   11   29   29    77     58    84    88   98   98 90 125 139 150 123  92 55  47   34   14   10
   13     4     2     3      4   13   35   52    62     63    76    74   63   93 84 116 130 133 121 101 49  49   36   14   12
    5     1     5     2      6   24   46   58    78     74    96    90   89   93 92 128 125 168 125  99 50  51   27   13    4
    5     2     2     4      4   11   58   63    64     64    66    94   97 102  82 134 153 155 113  58 48  27   22   12    6
AM Peak 1115 - 1215 (356), AM PHF=0.91 PM Peak 1700 - 1800 (606), PM PHF=0.90
                                               AMENDMENT
                      SAN MATEO COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS AGREEMENT
                          WITH INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR FOR SR2S ACTIVITIES
                                    AT PACIFICA SCHOOL DISTRICT
                                        July 1, 2012 to June 30, 2013

Contractor Name and Address:                                                    Contractor: Upon completion of work or agreed-upon work
                                                                                periods, mail invoice with above Agreement Number to:
Alta Planning & Design
                                                                                Department: Safe Routes to Schools
2560 9th Street, Suite 212
                                                                                Attention: Daina Lujan
Berkeley, CA 94710
                                                                                Address: San Mateo County Office of Education_____________

                                                                                101 Twin Dolphin Drive

                                                                                City, State, Zip: Redwood City, CA 94065-1064

It is agreed between the San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools, San Mateo, California, ("Superintendent") and Contractor as follows:

1.   Services to be performed by Contractor In consideration of the payments hereinafter set forth, Alta Planning & Design, hereinafter
     referred to as the Contractor, shall perform for the Superintendent map development and grant application facilitation for the Pacifica
     School District. The contractor shall develop six school specific, draft walk and bike route maps. The contract shall then circulate and
     revise draft maps based on stakeholder input. Deliverables shall include 1 (one) community meeting, 6 (six) routes maps in both draft
     and finalized forms. The contractor shall also prepare (1) one Safe Routes to School grant application for school route related
     improvements. The contractor will work with key stakeholders, to include, but not limited to, City staff, school district staff, law
     enforcement and other agencies as applicable to facilitate the development of the grant proposal. Deliverables shall include 1 (one) grant
     application in both draft and finalized form. The contractor will also conduct 1 (one) traffic study at Vallemar Elementary School.
     Deliverables shall include 1 (one) draft traffic count memo and 1 (one) final traffic count memo. See Exhibits "A" and "B" (Scope of
     Work) attached hereto for a detailed description of the Route Map/Grant Application. Contractor shall ensure compliance with all state,
     federal and local laws, regulations or rules applicable to performance of the work required under this contract.

2.   Contract Term The term of this Agreement shall be from July 1, 2012 to June 30, 2013 unless terminated earlier by the
     Superintendent.

3.   Payments In consideration of the services rendered in accordance with all terms, conditions and specifications set forth herein and in
     Exhibits "A" and "B", Superintendent shall make payment to Contractor in the amount of $27, 400 (TWENTY-SEVEN THOUSAND
     FOUR HUNDRED DOLLARS) 33,800 (THIRTY-THREE THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED DOLLARS). In the event that the
     Superintendent makes any payments for services in advance of the provision of such services, Contractor agrees to refund any amounts
     in excess of the amount owed by the Superintendent at the time of contract termination. The Superintendent reserves the right to
     withhold payment if the Superintendent determines that the quantity or quality of the work performed is unacceptable. In no event shall
     total payment for services under this Agreement exceed $27, 400 (TWENTY-SEVEN THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED DOLLARS)
     33,800 (THIRTY-THREE THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED DOLLARS).

4.   Relationship of the Parties Contractor agrees and understands that the work/services performed under this Agreement are performed as
     an Independent Contractor and not as an employee of the San Mateo County Office of Education or the Superintendent and that
     Contractor acquires none of the rights, privileges, powers or advantages of such employees.

5.   Workers' Compensation Insurance The Contractor shall have in effect, during the entire life of this Agreement, Worker's
     Compensation and Employer Liability Insurance providing full statutory coverage. In signing this Agreement, Contractor certifies
     awareness of the provisions of section 3700 of the California Labor Code which requires every employer to be insured against liability
     for Worker's Compensation or to undertake self-insurance in accordance with the provisions of the Code, and certifies compliance with
     such provisions before commencing the performance of this work of the Agreement as set forth in California Labor Code section 1861.

6.   Insurance The Contractor shall take out and maintain during the life of this Agreement such Bodily Injury Liability and Property
     Damage Liability Insurance as shall protect him/her while performing work covered by this Agreement from any and all claims for
     damages for bodily injury, including accidental death, as well as any and all operations under this Agreement, whether such operations
     be by himself/herself or by any Subcontractor or by anyone directly or indirectly employed by either of them. Such insurance shall be
     combined single limit bodily injury and property damage for each occurrence and shall not be less than $1,000,000.

7.   Hold Harmless Contractor agrees to indemnify and defend the Superintendent and County Office of Education and its employees and
     agents from any and all claims, damages and liability in any way occasioned by or arising out of the negligence of Contractor in the
     performance of this Agreement, including any sanctions, penalties or claims of damages resulting from Contractor's failure to comply

                                                                                                                                             1
     with the requirements set forth in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and all Federal regulations
     promulgated thereunder, as amended.

8.   Confidentiality All data produced or compiled by Contractor shall be considered confidential unless it can be obtained as public record
     and shall not be shared with a third party without the prior written consent of Superintendent. All financial, statistical, personal,
     technical, and other data and information relating to the County Office of Education's operations which is made available to the
     Contractor in order to carry out this Agreement shall be presumed to be confidential. Contractor shall protect said data and information
     from unauthorized use and disclosure. Contractor shall not, however, be required by this paragraph to keep confidential any data or
     information, which is or becomes publicly available, is already rightfully in Contractor's possession, is independently developed by
     Contractor outside the scope of the Agreement or is rightfully obtained from third parties.

9.   Non-Assignability Contractor shall not assign this Agreement or any portion thereof to a third party without the prior written consent of
     Superintendent, and any attempted assignment without such prior written consent in violation of this Section shall automatically
     terminate this Agreement.

10. Termination of Agreement Superintendent may, at any time from execution of Agreement, terminate this Agreement, in whole or in
    part, for the convenience of the County Office of Education, by giving written notice specifying the effective date and scope of such
    termination. Termination shall be effective on a date not less than thirty days from notice. In the event of termination, all finished or
    unfinished documents, data, studies, maps, photographs, reports, and materials (hereafter referred to as materials) prepared by Contractor
    under this Agreement shall become the property of the County Office of Education and shall be promptly delivered to the County Office
    of Education. In the event of termination, Contractor shall be paid for all work satisfactorily performed until termination, except where
    the Superintendent determines the quality or quantity of the work performed is unacceptable. Such payment shall be that portion of the
    full payment, which is determined by comparing the work/services completed to the work/services required by the Agreement.

11. Payment of Permits/Licenses It shall be the Contractor's responsibility to obtain any license, permit or approval required from any
    agency for work/services to be performed at his/her own expense, prior to commencement of said work/services or forfeit any right to
    compensation under this Agreement.

12. Non-Discrimination No person shall be excluded from participation in, denied benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under this
    Agreement on the basis of their race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, pregnancy, childbirth or related
    conditions, medical condition, mental or physical disability or veteran's status. Contractor shall ensure full compliance with federal, state
    and local laws, directives and executive orders regarding non-discrimination for all employees and Subcontractors under this Agreement.
    Contractor shall comply fully with the non-discrimination requirements required by 41 CFR 60-741.5(a), which is incorporated herein as
    if fully set forth.

     Violation of the non-discrimination provisions of this Agreement shall be considered a breach of this Agreement and may subject the
     Contractor to penalties, including but not limited to: i) termination of this Agreement; ii) disqualification of the Contractor from bidding
     on or being awarded a County Office of Education contract for a period of up to 3 years; iii) liquidated damages of $2,500 per violation;
     iv) imposition of other appropriate contractual and civil remedies and sanctions, as determined by the Superintendent.

     To effectuate the provisions of this paragraph, Superintendent shall have the authority to: i) examine Contractor's employment records
     with respect to compliance with this paragraph; ii) set off all or any portion of the amount described in this paragraph against amounts
     due to Contractor under the Contract or any other Contract between Contractor and Superintendent.

     Section 504 applies only to contractors who are providing services to members of the public. Contractor shall comply with Section 504
     of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which provides that no otherwise qualified handicapped individual shall, solely by reason of a
     disability, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination in the performance of this
     contract.

13. Equal Benefits With respect to the provision of employee benefits, Contractor shall comply with the County Ordinance which prohibits
    contractors from discriminating in the provision of employee benefits between an employee with a domestic partner and an employee
    with a spouse.

14. Retention of Records Contractor shall maintain all records related to this Agreement for no less than three years after Superintendent
    makes final payment or after termination of this contract and all other pending matters are closed. All records shall be subject to the
    examination and/or audit by agents of the County Office of Education, the State of California and/or Federal grantor agencies.

15. Merger Clause This Agreement, including Exhibits "A" and "B" attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, constitutes the
    sole Agreement of the parties hereto and correctly states the rights, duties, and obligations of each party as of this document's date. Any
    prior agreement, promises, negotiations, or representations between the parties not expressly stated in this document are not binding. All
    subsequent modifications shall be in writing and signed by the Superintendent or her authorized designee. In the event of a conflict
    between the terms, conditions, or specifications set forth herein and those in Exhibit "A" and "B" attached hereto, the terms, conditions,
    or specifications set forth herein shall prevail. This Agreement, or facsimile proposal of the Agreement, constitutes the entire Agreement
    between Superintendent and Contractor. Further, liability referenced to in section 6 is limited to Contractor's negligence during the
    Contractor's performance under this contract.


                                                                                                                                               2
16. Governing Law This Agreement, including any exhibits, shall for all purposes be deemed subject to the laws of the State of California,
    and in the event of a lawsuit concerning this Agreement shall be venued in the County of San Mateo.




                          THIS CONTRACT IS NOT VALID UNTIL SIGNED BY ALL PARTIES




Contractor's Signature                                      Date                        Contractor's Name (Please Print)


I hereby certify that the services requested are necessary, that the selection process documentation is accurate, that all insurance certificates
including Worker's Compensation are on file in this office, that the Superintendent has approved any reductions in Contractor's insurance
limits below $1,000,000, and that no work will commence until this document is signed by the Superintendent.




San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools                  Date




                                                                                                                                               3
                                EXHIBIT A
                  SCOPE OF WORK TO BE PERFORMED
           BY ALTA PLANNING FOR PACIFICA SCHOOL DISTRICT
                       July 1, 2012 to June 30, 2013
Task 1: Suggested Walking and Bicycling Routes to School Map

Alta will develop a Suggested Walking and Bicycling Routes to School Map for six Pacifica School District
schools.

Alta will facilitate one meeting to gather staff, parent, and community member input on suggestions for
recommended routes. Alta will then develop one school site specific map for each of the six schools. Each map
will show suggested walking and bicycling routes to school for up to a one-mile radius from the campus. All
maps will include key traffic controls, bicycle facilities, recommended crossing locations, school access points
and drop off and pick up recommendations.

Alta will deliver six Draft Suggested Walking and Bicycling Routes to School Maps for comment by
stakeholders. Alta will revise the six maps based on a single set of comments and provide six Final Suggested
Walking and Bicycling Routes to School Maps. Maps will be provided in PDF format.

Task #1 Deliverables
    · One (1) community meeting
    · Six (6) Draft Suggested Routes to School Maps (pdf)
    · Six (6) Final Suggested Routes to School Maps

Task #1 Schedule
Services to be provided by June 30, 2013
   · One (1) community meeting
   · Six (6) Draft Suggested Routes to School Maps (pdf)
   · Six (6) Final Suggested Routes to School Maps

Task #1 Fee Schedule
Route Maps (6 @ $4,000)                                                      $24,000

Task 2: Grant Application
Alta will prepare one SR2S grant application for school related improvements. Alta will work with staff
to confirm the recommended infrastructure improvements and refine the preliminary engineering
specifications and cost estimates and prepare an updated Improvement Plan for inclusion in the grant
application. Final cost estimates will be reviewed and approved by the City and school district.

Alta will work closely with staff to develop the schedule, project descriptions, cost estimates and other
supporting documentation. Alta will work with City staff, law enforcement, school district and other
agencies for necessary letters of support and signatures for the grant application as needed.
Alta will submit an electronic draft grant application for staff review. Based on comments Alta will make
necessary revisions to the grant as requested by the City and school district, and provide the school district with
an electronic version of the final grant, in PDF and Word form, for printing and submittal.

Task #2 Deliverables
   · Draft Grant Application
                                                                                                                   4
   ·   Final Grant Application

Task #2 Schedule
Services to be provided by June 30, 2013
   · 1 (one) final grant application

Task #2 Fee Schedule
Grant Application                                       $3,400

   Total Budget Not to exceed $27,400 (TWENTY-SEVEN THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED DOLLARS)




                                                                                     5
                               EXHIBIT B
                 SCOPE OF WORK TO BE PERFORMED
          BY ALTA PLANNING FOR PACIFICA SCHOOL DISTRICT
                      July 1, 2012 to June 30, 2013
Task 1: Traffic Counts at Vallemar School
Alta will conduct A.M. peak hour motor vehicle, pedestrian, and bicycle counts in the vicinity of Vallemar
school to document the school-related traffic volumes. Traffic counts, collecting all vehicle, pedestrian, and
bicycle movements will be conducted between 7 A.M. and 9 A.M. on a Tuesday and Thursday at the following
locations:

  Highway 1 and Reina Del Mar
  P-town Café / 76 Gas Station
  Reina Del Mar at Lauren Avenue
  Reina Del Mar at Hillside Drive
  Reina Del Mar at school entrance/Reichling Avenue

Pending completion of the counts, Alta will summarize our findings in a draft and final memo. Memo will
include a summary of vehicle, pedestrian, and bicycle volumes and movements at the five count locations,
and an estimate of the number of motor vehicles accessing Vallemar school from Highway 1.

Task #1 Deliverables
  Peak hour traffic counts from 7 A.M. to 9 A.M. (2 days at 5 locations)
  Draft Summary of Counts Memo
  Final Summary of Counts Memo

Task #1 Schedule
Services to be provided by June 30, 2013:
   · Traffic Count
   · Draft Counts Memo
   · Final Counts Memo

Task #1 Fee Schedule
Video Counts (5 locations, peak hour, two days)                                  $1,400
Draft Memo                                                                       $2,880
Final Memo                                                                       $2,120

   Total Budget Not to exceed $33,800 (THIRTY-THREE THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED DOLLARS)




                                                                                                                 6
San Mateo Office of Education
Pacifica
Safe Routes to School Report
June 2012
PREPARED BY:
Alta Planning + Design

PREPARED FOR:
San Mateo Office of Education
Table of Contents
1.        Introduction ................................................................................................................................. 1-1
          1.1.     How to Use this Report............................................................................................................................... 1-2
2.        Cabrillo Elementary Recommendations .................................................................................... 2-1
          2.1.     School Information ....................................................................................................................................... 2-1
          2.2.     Travel Survey Results .................................................................................................................................. 2-2
          2.3.     Issues and Recommendations ................................................................................................................... 2-4
3.        Ingrid B. Lacy Middle Recommendations .................................................................................. 3-1
          3.1.     School Information ....................................................................................................................................... 3-1
          3.2.     Travel Survey Results ...................................................................................................................................3-3
          3.3.     Issues and Recommendations ................................................................................................................... 3-5
4.        Ocean Shore Elementary Recommendations ............................................................................ 4-1
          4.1.     School Information ....................................................................................................................................... 4-1
          4.2.     Travel Survey Results .................................................................................................................................. 4-2
          4.3.     Issues and Recommendations ................................................................................................................... 4-4
5.        Ortega Elementary Recommendations ...................................................................................... 5-1
          5.1.     School Information ....................................................................................................................................... 5-1
          5.2.     Travel Survey Results .................................................................................................................................. 5-2
          5.3.     Issues and Recommendations ................................................................................................................... 5-4
6.        Sunset Ridge Elementary Recommendations............................................................................ 6-1
          6.1.     School Information ....................................................................................................................................... 6-1
          6.2.     Travel Survey Results .................................................................................................................................. 6-2
          6.3.     Issues and Recommendations ................................................................................................................... 6-4
7.        Vallemar Elementary Recommendations .................................................................................. 7-1
          7.1.     School Information ....................................................................................................................................... 7-1
          7.2.     Travel Survey Results .................................................................................................................................. 7-2
          7.3.     Issues and Recommendations ....................................................................................................................7-5
8.        Pacifica District-Wide Overview and Recommendations.......................................................... 8-1
          8.1.     District-Wide Issues .................................................................................................................................... 8-1
          8.2.     District-Wide Recommendations .............................................................................................................8-7
          8.3.     District-Wide Program Guide .................................................................................................................. 8-8
9.        District-Wide Action Plan ............................................................................................................ 9-1
Appendix A. Example Engineering Devices and Cost Assumptions .................................................... A-1
Appendix B.Survey and Tally Results by School.................................................................................... B-1


                                                                                                                              Safe Routes to School Report | i
Table of Contents


List of Figures
Figure 1-1: Pacifica Schools Map............................................................................................................................................1-4
Figure 2-1: Student Hand Tally Mode Split ....................................................................................................................... 2-2
Figure 2-2: Parent Survey Mode Split ................................................................................................................................. 2-2
Figure 2-3: Trip Mode By Distance From School ............................................................................................................. 2-3
Figure 2-4: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School......................................................... 2-3
Figure 2-5: Cabrillo Elementary Enrollment Map ........................................................................................................... 2-5
Figure 2-6: Cabrillo Elementary Improvement Plan....................................................................................................... 2-11
Figure 3-1: Student Hand Tally Mode Split ....................................................................................................................... 3-3
Figure 3-2. Parent Survey Mode Split ................................................................................................................................. 3-3
Figure 3-3: Trip Mode by Distance from School ............................................................................................................... 3-4
Figure 3-4: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School ......................................................... 3-4
Figure 3-5: Ingrid Lacy Middle School Enrollment Map ................................................................................................ 3-6
Figure 3-6: Ingrid B. Lacy Middle School Improvement Plan....................................................................................... 3-11
Figure 4-1: Student Hand Tally Mode Split ....................................................................................................................... 4-2
Figure 4-2: Parent Survey Mode Split ................................................................................................................................. 4-3
Figure 4-3: Trip Mode by Distance from School .............................................................................................................. 4-3
Figure 4-4: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School......................................................... 4-4
Figure 4-5: Ocean Shore Elementary Enrollment Map ................................................................................................... 4-6
Figure 4-6: Ocean Shore Elementary Improvement Plan ............................................................................................. 4-15
Figure 5-1: Student Hand Tally Mode Split ....................................................................................................................... 5-2
Figure 5-2: Parent Survey Mode Split ................................................................................................................................. 5-2
Figure 5-3: Trip Mode by Distance from School............................................................................................................... 5-3
Figure 5-4: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School ......................................................... 5-3
Figure 5-5: Ortega Elementary Enrollment Map .............................................................................................................. 5-5
Figure 5-6: Ortega Elementary Improvement Plan ......................................................................................................... 5-11
Figure 6-1: Student Hand Tally Mode Split ....................................................................................................................... 6-2
Figure 6-2: Parent Survey Mode Split ................................................................................................................................. 6-2
Figure 6-3: Trip Mode by Distance to School.................................................................................................................... 6-3
Figure 6-4: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School......................................................... 6-3
Figure 6-5: Sunset Ridge Elementary Enrollment Map .................................................................................................. 6-5
Figure 6-6: Sunset Ridge Elementary Improvement Plan .............................................................................................6-13
Figure 7-1: Student Hand Tally Mode Split ....................................................................................................................... 7-2
Figure 7-2: Parent Survey Mode Split ................................................................................................................................. 7-3
Figure 7-3: Trip Mode by Distance From School.............................................................................................................. 7-3
Figure 7-4: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School ......................................................... 7-4
Figure 7-5: Vallemar Elementary Enrollment Map .......................................................................................................... 7-6
Figure 7-6: Vallemar Elementary Improvement Plan ..................................................................................................... 7-13
Figure 8-1: Student Hand Tally District-Wide Mode Split ........................................................................................... 8-2
Figure 8-2: Parent Survey District-Wide Mode Split ..................................................................................................... 8-2
Figure 8-3: Trip Mode by Day of Week .............................................................................................................................. 8-4
Figure 8-4: Trip Mode by Distance from School .............................................................................................................. 8-4



ii | Pacifica School District
Figure 8-5: Parents' Perceptions of Walking and Bicycling........................................................................................... 8-5
Figure 8-6: Participation in Safe Routes to School Events and Programs .................................................................. 8-5
Figure 8-7: Concerns that Limit Walking and Biking to School .................................................................................. 8-6
Figure 8-8: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School ......................................................... 8-7


List of Tables
Table 2-1: Cabrillo Elementary Mode Split by Distance from School ......................................................................... 2-4
Table 2-2: Cabrillo Elementary Recommended Improvements .................................................................................... 2-8
Table 3-1: Ingrid B. Lacy Middle Mode Split by Distance from School ....................................................................... 3-5
Table 3-2: Ingrid B. Lacy Middle School Recommended Improvements .................................................................... 3-9
Table 4-1: Ocean Shore Elementary Mode Split by Distance from School ................................................................. 4-5
Table 4-2: Ocean Shore Elementary Recommended Improvements.......................................................................... 4-12
Table 5-1: Ortega Elementary Mode Split by Distance from School ............................................................................ 5-4
Table 5-2: Ortega Elementary Recommended Improvements ...................................................................................... 5-8
Table 6-1: Sunset Ridge Elementary Mode Split by Distance from School ................................................................ 6-4
Table 6-2: Sunset Ridge Elementary Recommended Improvements........................................................................... 6-9
Table 7-1: Vallemar Elementary Mode Split by Distance from School ........................................................................ 7-5
Table 7-2: Vallemar Elementary Recommended Improvements..................................................................................7-10
Table 8-1: Hand Tally Results by School ............................................................................................................................ 8-3




                                                                                                                        Safe Routes to School Report | iii
Table of Contents


This page intentionally left blank.




iv | Pacifica School District
                                                                                          Introduction




1. Introduction
Parents provide a number of reasons for choosing to drive their
children to school, often citing distance, convenience, the ages
of the children, and safety. Safe Routes to School programs
address a number of these obstacles that prevent students from
walking and biking to school.
The Pacifica School District encourages safe access and active
transportation to school. The purpose of this report is to
identify programs and infrastructure projects to improve
student safety and encourage walking and biking to school.
This report presents infrastructure and programmatic projects
recommended to improve student safety and access to the six
Pacifica School District schools shown in Figure 1-1, including:
    ·   Cabrillo Elementary School
    ·   Ingrid B. Lacy Middle School
    ·   Ocean Shore Elementary School
    ·   Ortega Elementary School
    ·   Sunset Ridge Elementary School
    ·   Vallemar Elementary School

Walk audit teams included Alta Planning + Design staff, the
school principals, and concerned parents. Audits were
conducted at each school either during morning drop-off or
afternoon pick-up. Each visit began with a discussion of
current challenge areas and what types of issues observers pay
attention to. The team then observed student access and
reviewed the area near each school for quality of sidewalks,
curb ramps, signage, and other engineering elements and
patterns of activity. Based on the observations and input
provided by school staff and parents, the project team
developed a report of recommendations which are presented for
each school in a narrative and graphical format.
                                                                   Traveling to school in Pacifica
The San Mateo Safe Routes to School program surveyed
students and parents in the Pacifica School District to
determine the baseline mode split and to identify key
opportunities to promote walking, bicycling, carpooling, and
transit use at each of the six schools in the district. Student
hand tallies were conducted in classes, where teachers asked
students to raise their hands if they used a particular mode to
get to or from school. Parent surveys were available online and

                                                                    Safe Routes to School Report | 1-1
Chapter 1


paper copies were sent home with students. This report presents a summary of the results of the student hand
tally and the parent survey for each school and identifies key strategies for encouraging students to walk, bike,
carpool, and use transit.
The report's programmatic and engineering recommendations are based on input gathered at the walk audit
observations and meetings afterward, as well as information from the student hand tallies, parent surveys, and
enrollment maps.
This report also presents district-wide recommendations that address issues observed at many of the schools.
These recommendations, presented in Chapter 8, focus on the other "4 E's" of Safe Routes to School:
Education, Encouragement, Enforcement, and Evaluation.
This report includes the following sections:
1.        Introduction ................................................................................................................................. 1-1
2.        Cabrillo Elementary Recommendations .................................................................................... 2-1
3.        Ingrid B. Lacy Middle Recommendations .................................................................................. 3-1
4.        Ocean Shore Elementary Recommendations ............................................................................ 4-1
5.        Ortega Elementary Recommendations ...................................................................................... 5-1
6.        Sunset Ridge Elementary Recommendations............................................................................ 6-1
7.        Vallemar Elementary Recommendations .................................................................................. 7-1
8.        Pacifica District-Wide Overview and Recommendations.......................................................... 8-1
9.        District-Wide Action Plan ............................................................................................................ 9-1
Appendix A. Example Engineering Devices and Cost Assumptions .................................................... A-1
Appendix B. Suvey and Tally Results by School .................................................................................... B-1



1.1. How to Use this Report
At the heart of every successful Safe Routes to School program is a coordinated effort by parent volunteers,
school staff, City staff, and the Police Department.
For each school, engineering recommendations are presented in graphic improvement plans with
accompanying tables that identify the agency intended to implement the recommendation. Some
recommendations are on school district property, while other recommendations in City right-of-way must be
implemented by the City. Following the school-specific recommendations in this report are district-wide
recommendations, meant to address common challenges. Appendix A presents a summary of school area
signs, crosswalks, and other physical improvements recommended in this report. Appendix B shows the
complete results of the student hand tallies and parent surveys both district-wide and for individual schools.




1-2 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                  Introduction


How can you use this report?
Parents can use this report to understand the conditions at their children's school and to become familiar
with the ways this program is working to make walking and biking safer.
School district and school staff can use this report to prioritize improvements identified on District
property and develop programs that educate and encourage students and parents to seek alternatives to single
family commutes to school. In many cases, education and encouragement programs require dedicated parent
volunteers to carry them out.
City staff can use this report to identify citywide issues and opportunities related to walking and biking and
to prioritize infrastructure improvements. City staff can also use this report to support Safe Routes to School
funding opportunities such as:
    ·   California Safe Routes to School (SR2S) grants
    ·   Federal Safe Routes to School (SRTS) grants
    ·   Office of Traffic Safety grants
    ·   Bicycle Transportation Account grants

Police department staff can use this report to understand issues related to walking and biking to school
and to plan for and prioritize enforcement activities that may make it easier and safer for students to walk and
bike to school.




                                                                              Safe Routes to School Report | 1-3
Chapter 1




                                 Figure 1-1: Pacifica Schools Map


1-4 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                          Cabrillo Elementary




2. Cabrillo Elementary
   Recommendations
2.1. School Information
Principal:                Scott Carson
Enrollment:               554 Students, K-8
School Arrival:           All grades ­ 8:20 AM
School Dismissal:         Kindergarten: ­ 1:20 PM
                          1st ­ 3rd Grade ­ 2:20 PM
                          4th ­ 5th Grade ­ 2:30 PM
                                                                             Cabrillo Elementary
                          6th ­ 8th Grade ­ 2:40 PM

2.1.1. Layout
Cabrillo Elementary School is located in southern Pacifica on Crespi Drive approximately two blocks
southeast of Highway 1. Surrounding land uses are residential and commercial, with a large tract of open space
directly north of the school. There is a loading zone in front of the school, at the far end of the staff parking
lot. Parents using the loading zone must travel across the campus and through the staff parking lot. School
access points include:
    ·   The main school entrance facing the main parking lot.
    ·   A side entrance facing Crespi Drive.
    ·   A back gate accessed by paths from a small secondary parking lot.

A significant challenge for walking and biking to Cabrillo Elementary is that it is not a neighborhood school
and students enroll from all over Pacifica.

2.1.2. Site Visit
The project team conducted a walk audit at Cabrillo Elementary School on March 27, 2012 during morning
drop-off. The weather was cool with light rain. The bell rings at 8:20 for all grades. The walking audit was
followed by a meeting afterward, which four parents and one student attended.

2.1.3. Loading Zones
There is one official off-street loading zone to allow parents to pick up their children, accessed from Crespi
Drive along the southeast side of the school. This loading zone also serves as the primary parking lot for the
school. Some parents stop short of the zone and turn into a hatched area immediately in front of the school
entrance to drop off their children. In addition, parents frequently drop off their children in two other areas:
along Crespi Drive and in the small parking lot off Crespi Drive immediately to the northwest of the site.

2.1.4. Crossing Guard Location
There is one crossing guard stationed at a midblock crossing across Crespi Drive in front of a side entrance to
the school. The crossing guard is outfitted with a high visibility vest and hand-held stop sign.


                                                                               Safe Routes to School Report | 2-1
Chapter 2


2.1.5. Existing Programs
There is a walk and bike to school day held at Cabrillo School every year in May and October. The school has
an especially high number of parent volunteers, which suggests high potential for walking and biking to
school programs.

2.2. Travel Survey Results
2.2.1. Student Hand Tally Results
Student hand tallies at Cabrillo Elementary were conducted in 19 classrooms, capturing 3,000 trips. Shown in
Figure 2-1, most students travel by family vehicles, with relatively high rates of carpooling. More students are
driven alone in the morning, while they are more likely to walk, carpool, or ride transit in the afternoon.



  80%
                                                     72%
  70%
                                                           65%

  60%

  50%

  40%                                                                                                             AM
                                                                                                                  PM
  30%

  20%                                                                   18%
                                                                  15%
            7%    9%
  10%                                                                                  5%
                           2%    2%          1%                                   3%
                                        0%                                                        1%   1%
   0%
             Walk           Bike      School Bus Family Vehicle   Carpool         Transit         Other

                                      Figure 2-1: Student Hand Tally Mode Split

2.2.2. Parent Survey Results                                                      City Bus/            Walk,
                                                                  Carpool,         Transit,
The parent survey collected data from 80 students. As                                                   8%
                                                                    12%              1%
shown in Figure 2-2, 77 percent of students are                                                             Bike, 1%
                                                                   School
individually driven to school. Nine percent of students            Bus, 0%
use active transportation modes during their school
commute, and 12 percent carpool.
A quarter of Cabrillo Elementary students live within a
half-mile of school and 45 percent live more than a mile
                                                                                              Driven
from school. As shown in Figure 2-3, nearly every                                              Solo,
student living more than two miles away from the school                                        77%
site arrives in a car, but almost 20 percent of students
within a half mile walk or bicycle.
                                                                        Figure 2-2: Parent Survey Mode Split


2-2 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                       Cabrillo Elementary


           100%

                   80%                                                                                      Other
                                                                                                            City Bus/ Transit
 Percent of Mode




                   60%        77%
                                              78%             83%                                           Carpools
                                                                                              85%
                   40%                                                       61%                            School Bus
                                                                                                            Driven
                   20%
                                                                                                            Bikes

                   0%                                                                                       Walks
                         1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile   1/2 - 1 mile   1 - 2 miles    More than 2
                                                                                           miles
                                                     Distance from School
                                              Figure 2-3: Trip Mode By Distance From School

Parents were asked what barriers keep them from allowing their children walking and bicycling to school. At
Cabrillo Elementary, most barriers concerned traffic safety. Personal safety concerns and scheduled before or
after school activities were also issues. The most frequent barriers to walking and bicycling include the
following:
               ·     Unsafe intersections (10 percent)                       ·   Stranger danger (7 percent)
               ·     Speeding traffic along route (10 percent)               ·   Lack of bikeways (7 percent)
               ·     Too much traffic along the route (9                     ·   Child's before or after school activities (7
                     percent)                                                    percent)

Parents were asked what reasons they would find most compelling to reduce their driving to school. As
shown in Figure 2-4, parents would be most inclined to reduce their driving if they felt their children knew
how to walk and bicycle safely, and if it was easier to coordinate with other parents and children.



   25%                                                                       23%

   20%                                                                                                          19%
                                             17%
                           16%                                                                 15%
   15%
                                                              10%
   10%

         5%

         0%
                      My child wanted My child wanted My child wanted My child knew    Transit/school     It was easier to
                     to make "greener" to walk/bike to to compete for how to walk and   buses better     coordinate with
                          choices       improve their prizes in contests bike safely  served my child's other parents/kids
                                           health                                          school

                                 Figure 2-4: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School



                                                                                           Safe Routes to School Report | 2-3
Chapter 8



2.3. Issues and Recommendations
2.3.1. Feasibility of Walking, Biking, and Ridesharing to School
The National Center for Safe Routes to School predicts that the majority of students who live within 1.35
miles can walk to and from school, while the majority of students within 2.6 miles can bicycle.1 Since 55
percent of Cabrillo's student enrollment is within a mile and 22 percent between one and two miles, there are
substantial opportunities for students to walk and bicycle. Figure 2-5 shows student enrollment. Few
students currently bike, likely due to steep topography in the area, so shifting trips from driving solo will
likely require a focus on walking, carpooling, and transit where appropriate.
As shown in Table 2-1, most students are currently driven alone in family vehicles, even the 156 students
whose parents reported living within a half-mile of school. The relatively high proportion of students who
carpool, particularly families who live one to two miles from the school, indicates a potential for shifting trips
away from driving alone to carpooling. Very few students currently take transit.


                         Table 2-1: Cabrillo Elementary Mode Split by Distance from School

                            Percent of                                      School                   City Bus/
Distance from School       Enrollment       Walks      Bikes    Driven       Bus       Carpools       Transit      Other

1/4 mile or less                    9%          20%        0%       77%           0%          3%            0%        0%

1/4 - 1/2 mile                     16%          12%        4%       78%           0%          4%            1%        2%

1/2 - 1 mile                       30%          11%        0%       83%           0%          6%            0%        0%

1 - 2 miles                        23%           6%        2%       61%           0%         30%            2%        0%

More than 2 miles                  22%           1%        1%       85%           0%         12%            1%        0%

Total                            100%            8%       1%        77%          0%          12%            1%       0%

Source: Parent Survey Results


The enrollment map shows that the majority of students live to the south of the school and are relatively
clustered, which indicates a potential for many students to participate in walking school buses and bike
trains. Several students live across Highway 101 or east of the school, where the topography is particularly
hilly. In these locations, transit can be encouraged where feasible, and carpooling education and
encouragement has potential.


1 This is based on the finding that people are generally willing to travel about 30 minutes each way, regardless of travel
mode. Assuming a student walking speed of 2.7 miles per hour and a bicycling speed of 8 mph, a child can travel 1.35
miles by foot or 4 miles via bicycle in 30 minutes. However, accounting for stop light interruptions, hilly terrain, and
other factors, the National Center recommends a student bicycling distance target of 2.6 miles.
http://www.saferoutesinfo.org/program-tools/what-distances-are-reasonable-expect-elementary-school-students-bike-
school


2-4 | Pacifica School District
                                                        Cabrillo Elementary




Figure 2-5: Cabrillo Elementary Enrollment Map




                                             Safe Routes to School Report | 9-1
Chapter 8



2.3.2. Engineering Improvements
Engineering recommendations are shown and mapped in Figure 2-6. Improvement identification numbers
reference numbers on the figure.

                                                      Main Passenger Loading Zone
                                                      The main passenger loading zone appears to work
                                                      moderately well, aided by the dispersal of parent drop-
                                                      offs at other sites around the school. However, parents
                                                      mentioned that in the afternoon, some parents park in
                                                      the loading zone, obstructing traffic for those who
                                                      simply want to pick up their children.
                                                      Students approaching the school from the south,
                                                      whether they are walking or dropped off by parents
                                                      nearby, cross the entrance to the parking lot where there
   Vehicles exiting the Cabrillo main parking lot     is no crosswalk.
Recommendations (ID #1)
    ·    Stripe a high visibility yellow school zone crosswalk across the entrance to the school parking lot.
    ·    Institute a student valet program where students in 5th grade and above help younger students in and
         out of their vehicles to improve the efficiency of the loading area.
    ·    Enlist a rotating team of parent volunteers to help for a half hour in the parking lot in the morning to
         curb illegal behavior and help move students safely and efficiently into school.

School Grounds
The school connects to a large tract of open space, through which there are several informal trails. The
additional land on the northwest side of the school provides an opportunity to provide an additional
passenger drop-off area if needed in the long term. Bicycle parking is located 225 feet from the school building
and is uncovered, which may cause security concerns.
Recommendations (ID #2 and #3)
    ·    Replace existing bike racks with covered bicycle parking.
    ·    Over the long term, the school could consider establishing an alternate drop-off zone that utilizes the
         abandoned road right of way north of the post office and connects to Crespi Drive at the existing
         secondary parking area. This would require coordination with the City and with San Mateo County.

Crespi Drive
Crespi Drive is the main street serving Cabrillo School. It has one lane in each direction with a two way left
turn lane. Both pedestrians and motorists exhibit disorderly behavior on Crespi Drive. U-turns are common in
both directions, likely because there are very few routes other than the main loading zone that would allow
parents to turn around without making a U turn. There is a midblock crosswalk with a crossing guard across
Crespi Drive but jaywalking is also common, among both parents and students. There are no curb ramps at
either end of the crosswalk.




2-6 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                         Cabrillo Elementary


Adjacent to the school site, Crespi Drive has a yellow hatched area where parking is prohibited. This area
prevents parking in the areas that would most obstruct visibility of pedestrians crossing in the crosswalk.
Motorists generally comply with this regulation. A white curb, designating a loading zone, is striped west of
the hatched area up to the small parking lot northwest of the school.
Parents cited the intersection of Ladera Way and Crespi Drive as a challenging intersection. Because of the
configuration of the streets and width of the intersection, motorists turning onto Crespi Drive may not see
students approaching in the crosswalk from the right.
There is no sidewalk on the east side of Crespi Drive between Peralta Road and De Solo Drive. At the existing
sidewalk and crosswalks, there are no curb ramps.
Recommendations (ID #4, #5, and #6)
    ·   Install curb ramps on the main crosswalk in front of the school site.
    ·   Over the long term, consider extending the sidewalk onto the hatched area in the street. This will
        increase space for walking on a crowded sidewalk and further increase pedestrian visibility.
    ·   Tighten the turning radii at both corners of the intersection of Ladera Way and Crespi Drive. There is
        a drainage inlet on the north corner, but significant amount of space could still be reclaimed from the
        roadway.
    ·   Install a sidewalk on the east side of Crespi Drive from Peralta Road to De Solo Drive. While the
        undeveloped area has a steep cross slope, there appears to be sufficient right-of-way along this
        important corridor.
    ·   Install curb ramps for existing crosswalks at the intersection of Crespi Drive and Peralta Road.

Roberts Road
Roberts Road is the first street to the west of the school off Crespi Drive. It is stop controlled and connects
north to Fassler Avenue. Roberts Road serves as an important parallel route to Highway 1. The road is very
steep and may not be suitable for bicyclists. The roadway design with a striped shoulder and adjacent
properties are not developed which may encourage high speeds. Crespi Drive widens to two lanes in each
direction west of Roberts Road and audit participants noted a student was hit at the intersection of Roberts
Road and Crespi Drive. There is a yellow high-visibility crosswalk on the west leg of the intersection
Recommendations (ID #7)
    ·   Stripe high visibility school zone crosswalks at the north and east legs of the Roberts Road/Crespi
        Drive Intersection. Remove the crosswalk on the west leg of the intersection.
    ·   Install school speed limit signage on Roberts Road.

De Solo Drive
De Solo Drive would be a likely candidate for a walking school bus route as it is a continuous street that
directly connects the school to the surrounding neighborhoods. The crosswalk at the intersection of De Solo
Drive and Crespi Drive is approximately 120 feet wide. The unusually wide turning radius not only encourages
fast vehicle speeds, but directs motorists' attention at a more extreme angle in one direction, reducing their
awareness of pedestrians. In addition, the long crossing distance increases pedestrian exposure.




                                                                             Safe Routes to School Report | 9-1
Chapter 8



There is a park-and-ride lot with unused capacity at the intersection of De Solo Drive and Linda Mar
Boulevard. This parking lot would be a good candidate for a park-and-walk, as there are continuous sidewalks
on De Solo Drive.
Recommendations (ID#9)
     ·     Develop a park and walk program at the existing park-and-ride lot at the intersection of De Solo
           Drive and Linda Mar Boulevard.
     ·     Stripe transverse crosswalks with curb ramps on the west side of De Solo Drive across Arguello
           Boulevard and Fernandez Way.
     ·     Install curb extensions at the intersection with De Solo Drive and Crespi Drive. Enough space could
           be reclaimed in the pavement to create a small pocket park or rain garden. Any treatments along the
           curb should maintain adequate line of sight through the intersection.

Engineering Improvement Summary
Table 2-2 lists the recommended improvements to address circulation issues around Cabrillo School and
Figure 2-6 presents an improvement plan of these recommendations. The project IDs in Table 2-2
correspond to those in Figure 2-6. The table identifies the agency likely to lead the improvement, the
recommended priority level for implementation, and a planning level cost estimate. The priority level is based
on the anticipated safety and circulation benefit, the feasibility of implementation, and the projected cost.


                            Table 2-2: Cabrillo Elementary Recommended Improvements

ID       Location       Recommendations                                                Lead       Priority   Cost
                                                                                       Agency     Level

1        Main             · Stripe a high-visibility school zone crosswalk across      District       High          $500
                            the entrance to the school parking lot
         Passenger
                          · Institute a student valet program that engages older
         Loading Zone       students in traffic safety issues at the school
                          · Enlist a rotating team of parent volunteers to help
                            for shifts of a half hour in the morning to curb illegal
                            behavior and help to move students safety and
                            efficiently into school


2        School           · Replace existing bike racks with covered parking for       School,        Low       $2,400
                             12 bicycles
         Grounds                                                                       City,
                                                                                       County

3        School           · Over the long term, consider constructing an               School,        Low            NA
                             additional drop-off zone on the northwest side of
         Grounds                                                                       City,
                             the school
                                                                                       County




2-8 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                            Cabrillo Elementary


ID   Location        Recommendations                                             Lead      Priority    Cost
                                                                                 Agency    Level

4    Crespi Drive     · Install curb ramps on the main crosswalk in front of     City           High      $60,000
                        the school site
     at Main
                      · Extend the sidewalk onto the hatched area in the
     Crosswalk          street
                      · Discourage U-turns


5    Crespi Drive     · Tighten the turning radii at both corners of the         City       Medium        $60,000
                        intersection of Ladera Way and Crespi Drive
     at Ladera Way


6    Crespi Drive     · Install a sidewalk on the east side of Crespi Drive      City       Medium        $64,000
                        from Peralta Road to De Solo Drive
     from De Solo
                      · Install curb ramps for existing crosswalks at the
     Drive to           intersection of Crespi Drive and Peralta Road
     Peralta Road

7    Roberts Road     · Stripe high visibility yellow school zone crosswalks at City        Medium         $1,300
                        the north and east legs of the Roberts Road/Crespi
                        Drive intersection; Remove the crosswalk on the
                        west leg of the intersection
                      · Install school speed limit signage on Roberts Road


8    Crespi Drive     · Take steps to establish the existing Community           School,    Medium             NA
                        Center parking lot as a park-and-walk
     at Cabrillo                                                                 City
     Highway

9    De Solo Drive    · Develop a park-and-walk program at the existing          City       Medium        $60,300
                        park and ride lot at the intersection with Linda Mar
                        Boulevard; May require coordination with SamTrans
                      · Stripe transverse crosswalks with curb ramps on the
                        west side of De Solo Drive across Arguello Boulevard
                        and Fernandez Way
                      · Reconfigure the curb radius at the intersection of De
                        Solo Drive with Crespi Drive; Build a small pocket
                        park or rain garden


                                                                    Total Cost                          $248,500




                                                                                 Safe Routes to School Report | 9-1
Chapter 8



2.3.3. Recommended Education, Encouragement and Ridesharing Programs
Due to the relatively flat terrain and high population density directly to the south of the school, Cabrillo
School has high potential for walking and somewhat more limited potential for bicycling. However, the large
number of students living more than a mile from Cabrillo Elementary indicates a need for transit and
carpooling education and encouragement.
The parent survey results indicate that parents would be receptive to programmatic improvements such as
safe walking and bicycling instruction and coordination with other parents and students.

Programmatic Recommendations
Key programmatic recommendations are listed below. These programs and others are described in more detail
in Section 8.2.
A School Safety Campaign implemented through a variety of media outlets can reduce the frequency of illegal
and unsafe driving behavior. Such a campaign would help to address parental concerns about traffic and
intersection crossings as well as unsafe motorist behavior, and would improve safety for students walking and
bicycling to school.
    ·    A circulation map would help to alleviate traffic congestion at Cabrillo Elementary, symbolized by
         blue dashed lines in Figure 2-6. These circulation maps could be distributed via school newsletters
         and websites.
    ·    Walking school buses can encourage families to walk to school together or can enable busy families
         to coordinate with other parents who already walk their children to school. A walking school bus
         should have a regular route and a parent contact to oversee the program. Several possible routes exist
         in the area south of Cabrillo Elementary.
    ·    Carpooling can be encouraged with the use of the 511 SchoolPool Tool, a ride matching service that
         locates families with similar commutes and facilitates coordination so they can commute to school
         together. Cabrillo Elementary has a high density of families who live too far to walk, and with steep
         terrain that discourages bicycling, but who could carpool together to and from school.
    ·    Establishing a park-and-walk at the existing park and ride lot at the intersection with Linda Mar
         Boulevard or at the community center at the intersection of Crespi Drive and Highway 1 (ID #8 and
         #9) would enable parents to drop their children off and either walk the last leg of the journey into
         school or link them with other parents who can complete the journey to school with their children.
         Such a program can disperse congestion through a larger area around the school site and demonstrate
         solidarity with their peers who walk and bike to school.
    ·    Parent and student volunteers can be trained as parent or student valets to manage traffic and assist
         in loading and can significantly improve safety and the traffic flow around schools. Volunteers can be
         outfitted with florescent vests to increase their visibility and denote their role as a school
         representative. While valet duties are not suitable for young children, students in the 4th grade and
         above can act effectively as a valet program when under adult supervision. The student government is
         looking for projects and student valet parking would be an opportunity to contribute to their school
         community.
    ·    Bike rodeos were a consensus recommendation at the parent meeting to teach children to operate
         bicycles safely and confidently. Bicycle rodeos would improve student bicycling skills and would
         likely increase parents' confidence and willingness to allow their children to bike to and from school.



2-10 | Pacifica School District
                                                              Cabrillo Elementary




Figure 2-6: Cabrillo Elementary Improvement Plan


                                                   Safe Routes to School Report | 9-1
Chapter 8



This page intentionally left blank.




2-12 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                         Ingrid B. Lacy Middle




3. Ingrid B. Lacy Middle
   Recommendations
3.1. School Information
Principal:       Tina Van Raaphorst
Enrollment:      612
Arrival:         All Grades ­ 8:57 AM
Dismissal:       All Grades ­ 3:09 PM
Wednesday Minimum Days:
                                                                            Ingrid B. Lacy Middle
                 All Grades ­ 1:41 PM

3.1.1. Layout
Ingrid B. Lacy School is located on Palmetto Avenue
between Shoreview Avenue and Bella Vista Avenue.
Highway 1 borders the school to the east, and the ocean
is approximately 600 feet to the west, resulting in
Palmetto Avenue being the only north-south street
providing access to the school. The Highway 1 exit is
located on Paloma Avenue, the westbound component of
a one-way couplet Carmel Avenue. The staff parking lot
is located along Bella Vista Avenue. Parents can park and
drop off or pick up their children from the loading zone
in front of the school, which enters and egresses onto
                                                                Bicycle and skateboard parking at the school's
Palmetto Avenue. The school does not offer bussing aside
                                                                                north entrance
from a single special needs bus.
While few students walk to school due to access challenges, some students bicycle and skateboard. Racks for
bicycles and skateboards are located behind a gate by the north exit to the school, which is locked during the
day. Students are required to walk their bicycles and skateboards on the school campus from the bus stop.

3.1.2. Site Visit
The project team conducted a walk audit at Ingrid B. Lacy School on March 1, 2012 during afternoon pick-up.
Conditions were sunny with a breeze, although the morning had been rainy. No extraneous circumstances
appeared to influence traffic circulation. Assistant Principal Chido Garcia and one parent participated in the
audit. The group observed school access, traffic circulation, infrastructure in the school vicinity and met with
the School Site Committee to discuss their observations.

3.1.3. Loading Zone
The official loading zone for the school is on a loop drive in front of the school. Few parents were observed
loading students from the teacher parking lot or southbound on Palmetto Avenue. In advance of school


                                                                                     3-1 | Pacifica School District
Chapter 3


                                                         dismissal, parents park or wait on either side of the
                                                         loop road, resulting in a single narrow travel lane. A
                                                         small number of students are picked up on Palmetto
                                                         Avenue south of Paloma Avenue, where parents can
                                                         exit the highway and turn left on Carmel Avenue
                                                         without turning around.
                                                         The school purchased traffic cones to block the
                                                         parking space on the southern approach to the
                                                         crosswalk, in order to preserve visibility. They also
                                                         have an in-street pedestrian warning sign, which the
                                                         school replaced after it was damaged by a vehicle.
 The main loading zone is the loop road, which becomes   While some students were observed crossing
      congested with parked and waiting vehicles
                                                         Palmetto Avenue at an undesignated location, this
                                                         was not a prevalent concern. The northern crosswalk
                                                         was not regularly used.
To the north of the school, students leaving by SamTrans generally used the sidewalk to access the bus stops.
A teacher was on hand to prevent students from leaving the sidewalk while waiting for the buses to load.
Parents leaving the loop drive generally continued north on Palmetto Avenue, with a smaller number making
an illegal left turn. Few students crossed Palmetto Avenue north of the school.

                                                         3.1.4. Crossing Guard Location
                                                         A crossing guard is located south of the school, on
                                                         Palmetto Avenue at Shoreview Avenue. She assists
                                                         students crossing Palmetto Avenue to the south of
                                                         the school and reduces illegal left turns into the loop
                                                         drive, which were observed prior to the crossing
                                                         guard being present.

                                                         3.1.5. Bus Stop
                                                         Many students use SamTrans buses to get to and
                                                         from school. Bus stops are located to the north and
   In-street pedestrian crossing sign and crossing guard south of the school, and bus schedules have been
         on Palmetto Avenue at Shoreview Avenue          coordinated with the arrival and dismissal bells.
                                                         However, on Wednesday early release days students
who bus have to wait until the regular departure time. A Boys and Girls club on the school campus provided
activities and supervision on those days. Students who miss their bus and need to wait for the next bus are
not supervised. Teachers assist with student loading onto SamTrans at the bus stop to the north of the school,
on Palmetto Avenue at Shell Street. Students are not supervised on the buses, and SamTrans does not report
issues on the bus.




3-2 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                             Ingrid B. Lacy Middle


3.2. Travel Survey Results
3.2.1. Student Hand Tally Results
Student hand tallies at Ingrid B. Lacy School were conducted in 15 classrooms, capturing 2,103 trips. As shown
in Figure 3-1, most students are driven alone. This school also has the highest use of transit and carpooling
among students, likely because middle school students are older and involved in more after school activities.

 60%
                                                  55% 54%

 50%


 40%


 30%                                                                                                             AM
                                                                                                                 PM
                                                                               20% 20%
                                                                    19%
 20%
                                                                 15%

 10%       7% 7%
                                                                                                2%
                        0% 0%        0% 0%                                                           1%
  0%
            Walk         Bike       School Bus Family Vehicle    Carpool       Transit           Other

                                   Figure 3-1: Student Hand Tally Mode Split

3.2.2. Parent Survey Results
                                                                                     Other, Walk,
The parent survey collected data from 67 students, shown in           City
                                                                                      1%     2%
Figure 3-2. Fifty-four percent of students are driven alone to       Bus/
                                                                                                            Bike, 0%
                                                                    Transit,
school. Carpooling and transit use are more common than at           19%
other schools, but few students walk or bike to school.
Students at Ingrid B. Lacy Middle live further from school
than students at many other schools in Pacifica. Only 5
percent of students live within a half-mile of school, 89                      Carpool               Driven
                                                                                , 24%                 Solo,
percent of students live more than a mile from school, and 53
                                                                                                      54%
percent of students live more than 2 miles from Ingrid B.
Lacy. Because so many students live beyond a reasonable
walking or bicycling distance from school, carpooling and              School
                                                                       Bus, 0%
transit use encouragement will likely be more effective than
walking and bicycling programs. Travel behavior is shown
                                                                       Figure 3-2. Parent Survey Mode Split
according to distance from school in Figure 3-3.




                                                                                         3-3 | Pacifica School District
Chapter 3


                   100%


                   80%
                                                                                                                       Other
                                                                                                                       City Bus/ Transit
 Percent of Mode




                   60%
                                                                                                                       Carpools
                                 100%              100%
                                                                        85%                                            School Bus
                   40%
                                                                                                                       Driven
                                                                                           44%           50%
                   20%                                                                                                 Bikes
                                                                                                                       Walks
                       0%
                            1/4 mile or less   1/4 - 1/2 mile        1/2 - 1 mile    1 - 2 miles   More than 2 miles
                                                                Distance from School

                                                  Figure 3-3: Trip Mode by Distance from School

When asked about the barriers to their children walking and bicycling to school, parents cited a range of
concerns including both systemic issues such as distance to school and having too much to carry, as well as
traffic concerns such as speeding traffic and unsafe intersections. The most frequent barriers to walking and
bicycling include the following:
                   ·    Too far from school (9 percent)                                ·     Unsafe intersections (7 percent)
                   ·    Speeding traffic along route (8 percent)                       ·     Lack of bikeways (7 percent)
                   ·    Child has too much to carry (8 percent)                        ·     Too much traffic along the route (7
                   ·    Stranger danger (7 percent)                                          percent)

As shown in Figure 3-4, parents at Ingrid Lacy Middle School would find improved transit and school buses
to be the most compelling reason to reduce driving to school, as well as coordinating with other parents to
arrange carpools or other possibilities for school travel. Another important reason for using active
transportation modes would be if their children wished to walk or bike to improve their health.



   35%
                                                                                                         31%
   30%

   25%
                                                                                                                           20%
   20%                                          17%
   15%                        11%                                     10%               10%
   10%

          5%

          0%
                         My child wanted My child wanted My child wanted My child knew    Transit/school     It was easier to
                        to make "greener" to walk/bike to to compete for how to walk and   buses better     coordinate with
                             choices       improve their prizes in contests bike safely  served my child's other parents/kids
                                              health                                          school

                                    Figure 3-4: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School


3-4 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                 Ingrid B. Lacy Middle


3.3. Issues and Recommendations
3.3.1. Feasibility of Walking, Biking, and Ridesharing to School
The National Center for Safe Routes to School recommends distance targets that the majority of students who
live within 1.35 miles can walk to and from school, while the majority of students within 2.6 miles can
bicycle. 2 Figure 3-5 shows student enrollment. As shown in Table 3-1. Ingrid B. Lacy Middle has a higher
proportion of students who live more than two miles from school, and the lack of street connectivity resulting
in few walking and bicycling routes to school is a significant barrier to walking and bicycling.


                        Table 3-1: Ingrid B. Lacy Middle Mode Split by Distance from School

                           Percent of                                     School                  City Bus/
Distance from School Enrollment            Walks      Bikes    Driven      Bus       Carpools      Transit       Other

1/4 mile or less                    3%          0%       0%      100%          0%           0%           0%           0%

1/4 - 1/2 mile                      2%          0%       0%      100%          0%           0%           0%           0%

1/2 - 1 mile                        6%          3%       0%       85%          0%           0%         13%            0%

1 - 2 miles                        36%          3%       0%       44%          0%         31%          21%            0%

More than 2 miles                  53%          1%       1%       50%          1%         25%          21%            1%

Total                            100%           2%       0%       53%          0%         25%          20%           1%

Source: Parent Survey Results


School and District efforts should therefore be focused on carpooling and encouraging transit use. The
enrollment map shows that the majority of the school enrollment is located to the north of the school, and
students are clustered relatively densely. This indicates a high potential for carpooling, as families can meet up
and drive together to school.




2 This is based on the finding that people are generally willing to travel about 30 minutes each way, regardless of travel
mode. Assuming a student walking speed of 2.7 miles per hour and a bicycling speed of 8 mph, a child can travel 1.35
miles by foot or 4 miles via bicycle in 30 minutes. However, accounting for stop light interruptions, hilly terrain, and
other factors, the National Center recommends a student bicycling distance target of 2.6 miles.
http://www.saferoutesinfo.org/program-tools/what-distances-are-reasonable-expect-elementary-school-students-bike-
school
                                                                                     Safe Routes to School Report | 9-1
Chapter 8




                                 Figure 3-5: Ingrid Lacy Middle School Enrollment Map




3-6 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                         Ingrid B. Lacy Middle


3.3.2. Engineering Improvements
Engineering recommendations are shown and mapped in Figure 3-6: Ingrid B. Lacy Middle School
Improvement Plan. Improvement identification numbers reference numbers on the figure.

Loading Zone and Surf Street
The loading zone drive is one way and serves as the primary loading location. This area becomes congested
with parents parking and waiting for their children. Congestion would be reduced by dispersing passenger
loading activity to alternate locations. Multiple parents were observed making illegal left turns into and out of
the loading zone drive. Few students were observed crossing the loop drive, and they were accessing vehicles
waiting on the west side of the drive or students crossed Palmetto Avenue at the mid-block crosswalk.
There is an existing high-visibility crosswalk across Palmetto Avenue north of Surf Street with no additional
treatments to heighten pedestrian and driver awareness.
Recommendation (ID #1 and #2)
    ·   Reduce turning radii on both sides of Palmetto Avenue at intersection with Loop Drive and Shell
        Street
    ·   Enforce left turn restrictions
    ·   Install pedestrian-activated Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacon at the existing crosswalk at Palmetto
        Avenue and Surf Street
    ·   Install truncated domes at curb ramps

Palmetto Avenue at Shoreview Avenue
The main crosswalk across Palmetto Avenue at Shoreview Avenue
is significantly improved by the crossing guard, in-pavement
warning signs, high-visibility markings, and traffic cones
prohibiting parking on the approach. The crosswalk to the north is
midway on the loading zone, although there is no pedestrian
accommodation through the buffer between Palmetto Avenue and
the loading zone. This crosswalk was not well-used, and more
students were observed crossing Palmetto Avenue north of the
loading zone drive exit.
Parents accessing and leaving the loop road from Palmetto Avenue
were observed making illegal left turns. Regardless of which
direction the parent drives from, the parent will want to drive back
in the direction they came from. There are few turn-arounds, and
parents sometimes use Shoreview Avenue to turn, although another
Highway 1 exit is located just north of the school.
Recommendation (ID #3)
    ·   Continue coning off parking on approach to crosswalk.
    ·   Continue crossing guard supervision at the crosswalk. The crossing guard is an essential part of
        circulation and would become increasingly important if more parents used the southbound side of
        Palmetto Avenue for passenger loading as recommended.
                                                                               Safe Routes to School Report | 9-1
Chapter 8




    ·    Install high-visibility yellow school zone crosswalks on south and west legs of the Palmetto
         Avenue/Shoreview Avenue intersection.
    ·    Provide pedestrian warning signage.
    ·    Tighten the turning radius at the southwest corner of the intersection.
    ·    Install truncated domes at curb ramps.
    ·    Enforce left turn restrictions.

Staff Parking Lot and Bella Vista Avenue
Currently, parents are discouraged from parking or waiting in the teacher parking lot located south of the
school on Bella Vista Avenue. This space could be used for loading, but parents are concerned about the lack
of supervision in the parking lot. Additionally the curb ramps do not have truncated domes. Encouraging
parents to load in the teacher parking lot would reduce the number of illegal turns into the loading zone as
well as mitigating congestion in that area.
Recommendations (ID #4 and #5)
    ·    Encourage parents to drop off students in the staff parking lot and station a teacher to assist with
         pick-up and to supervise students.
    ·    Install truncated domes at curb ramps.
    ·    Tighten the turning radii at the northeast and southeast corners of the intersection of Bella Vista
         Avenue and Palmetto Avenue.
    ·    Stripe a high-visibility yellow crosswalk on east leg of Bella Vista Avenue intersection.

Palmetto Avenue between Paloma Avenue and Carmel Avenue
Paloma Avenue provides an additional opportunity for passenger loading in such a way that would disperse
some of the congestion in the school area. However, crosswalks are faded at what would become an important
intersection for any students dropped off or picked up at this location.
Recommendations (ID #6)
    ·    Encourage alternative loading on southbound side of Palmetto Avenue and along Paloma Avenue.
    ·    Stripe high-visibility yellow school zone crosswalk on the west, east and south legs of the
         intersection.

Engineering Improvement Summary
Table 3-2 lists the recommended improvements to address circulation issues around Ingrid B. Lacy
Elementary and Figure 3-6 presents an improvement plan of these recommendations. The project IDs in Table
3-2 correspond to those in Figure 3-6. The table identifies the agency likely to lead the improvement, the
recommended priority level for implementation, and a planning level cost estimate. The priority level is based
on the anticipated safety and circulation benefit, the feasibility of implementation, and the projected cost.




3-8 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                     Ingrid B. Lacy Middle




                        Table 3-2: Ingrid B. Lacy Middle School Recommended Improvements

ID   Location             Recommendations                                              Lead          Priority       Cost
                                                                                       Agency        Level

1    Loading Zone           · Reduce turning radii on both sides of Palmetto                  City           High
                              Avenue at intersection with the loading zone exist
     and Shell Street
                              and Shell Street
                            · Enforce left turn restrictions
                                                                                                                      $62,600

2    Palmetto Avenue        · Install pedestrian-activated Rectangular Rapid Flash            City           High
                              Beacons at the existing crossing
     at Surf Street
                            · Install truncated domes at curb ramp
                                                                                                                      $50,000

3    Palmetto Avenue        · Continue coning off parking on approach to                 School/             High
                              crosswalk
     at Shoreview                                                                             City
                            · Continue crossing guard supervision at the
     Avenue                   crosswalk
                            · Install high-visibility yellow school zone crosswalks
                              on south and west legs of this intersection
                            · Provide pedestrian crosswalk warning signs
                            · Tighten the turning radius at the southwest corner
                            · Install truncated domes at curb ramps
                            · Enforce left turn restrictions
                                                                                                                      $32,600

4    Staff Parking Lot      · Provide teacher supervision to encourage                   School/        Middle
                              alternative loading
     and Bella Vista                                                                          City
                            · Install truncated domes at curb ramps
     Avenue
                            · Tighten turning radii at the northeast and
                              southeast corners
                            · Stripe high-visibility yellow crosswalk on east leg of
                              intersection
                                                                                                                      $61,500

5    Palmetto Avenue        · Encourage alternative loading on southbound side           School              Low
                              of Palmetto Avenue and along Paloma Avenue
     between Paloma
                            · Stripe high-visibility yellow school zone crosswalk
     Avenue and               on the west, east and south legs of intersection
     Carmel Avenue                                                                                                     $1,500

NA   Education and          · Promote 511.org SchoolPool Tool for carpooling           School/               High
     Encouragement          · Provide transit schedules and maps in parent              District
                              materials quarterly
                            · Work with police to enforce left turn restrictions
                              and reduce speeds on Palmetto Avenue
                                                                                                                           NA

Total Cost                                                                                                      $208,200.00

                                                                                       Safe Routes to School Report | 9-1
Chapter 8




3.3.3. Recommended Education, Encouragement and Ridesharing Programs
Because so few students at Ingrid B. Lacy live within a mile of the school, programmatic strategies should
focus on transit use and carpooling opportunities. Parents should be educated about transportation options,
including SamTrans schedules and routes, as well as the SchoolPool RideMatching tool. In addition, the
school and SR2S program should promote activities and events that encourage bus usage and carpooling.
While modifications to transit and school bus schedules may be difficult to implement, parents may be
encouraged by improvements to the bus stop at the school site and by student education about how to use
transit.
The school should also identify sites for park-and walk programs, which would allow students living further
away to be included in active transportation activities and benefits from Safe Routes to School despite being
driven part way. In addition, all of the students who live within a half-mile of school are currently driven
alone, and improvements to the walking routes as well as education and encouragement are likely to influence
mode shift on these students.
In addition to the infrastructure enhancements described above, the programmatic strategies listed below
would be especially effective at Ingrid B. Lacy School: These programs and others are described in more detail
in Section 8.2.
    ·    A School Safety Campaign implemented through a variety of media outlets can reduce the frequency
         of illegal and unsafe driving behavior. Such a campaign would help to address parental concerns
         about traffic and intersection crossings as well as unsafe motorist behavior, and would improve safety
         for students walking and bicycling to school.
    ·    Carpooling can be encouraged with the use of the 511 SchoolPool Tool, a ride matching service that
         locates families with similar commutes and facilitates coordination so they can commute to school
         together. Ingrid B. Lacy Middle has a high density of families who live too far to walk, and with steep
         terrain that discourages bicycling, but who could carpool together to and from school. Parents were
         unaware of the 511.org SchoolPool Tool, but would consider using it if the tool were advertised.
    ·    Provide reminders of bus schedules and maps to parents in the parent newsletter to encourage more
         students to ride SamTrans to and from school.
    ·    A circulation map would help to alleviate traffic congestion at Ingrid B. Lacy Middle by encouraging
         drop-off in the teacher parking lot and by reinforcing the prohibition on left turns from the loading
         zone drive onto Palmetto Avenue, symbolized by blue dashed lines in Figure 3-6. These circulation
         maps could be distributed via school newsletters and websites.
    ·    Work with police to enforce left turn restrictions and reduce speeds on Palmetto Avenue.




3-10 | Pacifica School District
                                                                 Ingrid B. Lacy Middle




Figure 3-6: Ingrid B. Lacy Middle School Improvement Plan


                                                            3-11 | Pacifica School District
Chapter 3


This page intentionally left blank.




3-12 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                   Ocean Shore Elementary




4. Ocean Shore Elementary Recommendations
4.1. School Information
Principal:        Karen Gnusti
Enrollment:       Kindergarten ­ 8th grade
Arrival:          All Grades ­8:25 AM
Dismissal:        Kindergarten ­ 2:00 PM

                   Grades 1-3 ­ 2:40 PM
           Grades 4-8 ­ 3:00 PM
Wednesday Minimum Days:

                   Kindergarten ­ 12:35 PM
                   Grades 1-3 ­ 12:45 PM                                      Ocean Shore
           Grades 4-8 ­ 1:00 PM

4.1.1. Layout
Ocean Shore School is located on a large campus adjacent
to two frontage roads, Oceana Boulevard on the western
perimeter and Monterey Road on the northern perimeter.
An access drive from Oceana Boulevard leads to a teacher
and staff parking lot, as well as a vehicular drop-off/pick
up area at the school's main entrance. The schoolyard and
sports fields are located along the eastern and northern
end of the campus. Students enter the schoolyard through
gates off of Nelson Avenue and Monterey Road. The gates
are locked with a combination lock when the school is
closed. The locked gates on Monterey Road pose a
challenge to pedestrian access to school. Due to the
physical distance from the school to the Monterey Road
gates it is difficult for staff to unlock the gate during
school arrival and dismissal times.
Students commute to Ocean Shore from all over the
district. Due to the nature of a cross-district commute,
the majority of children are driven to and from the school,   The Cabrillo Highway, immediately west of Oceana
though some families carpool. Some students walk or               Boulevard, runs in a trench near the school
bike to and from school. A bike rack in the schoolyard
holds approximately 16 bikes. On the morning of the audit, five bikes were parked at the bike rack. Education
and encouragement programs such as pedestrian safety assemblies, bike rodeos, and classroom competitions
for greatest collective walking and/or biking distance can help turn walking and biking to school a common
practice.


                                                                             Safe Routes to School Report | 4-1
Chapter 4


4.1.2. Site Visit
The project team conducted a walk audit at Ocean Shore Elementary on March 6, 2012 during morning drop-
off. The weather was cold and windy. Principal Karen Gnusti greeted the audit team at 8:00am and described
the circulation and access to the school. The walk audit team observed how students access the school, traffic
circulation, infrastructure in the school vicinity and then convened to discuss their observations.
On the evening of the walk audit, Ocean Shore School hosted a meeting for parents, teachers, and faculty. The
project team gave a presentation on safe routes to school and facilitated a group discussion about the school's
specific safety issues and recommended solutions.

4.1.3. Loading Zones
The school bus drops off students at the school's main entrance. Parents who drive their children to school use
the following three loading areas:
    ·    The access drive off of Oceana Boulevard (formal zone)
    ·    The cul-de-sac at the end of Edgemar Avenue (formal zone)
    ·    The dead-end at Nelson Avenue that leads to a pedestrian gate to the schoolyard (informal)

4.1.4. Crossing Guard Location
No crossing guards currently assist at Ocean Shore School.

4.2. Travel Survey Results
4.2.1. Student Hand Tally Results
Student hand tallies at Ocean Shore Elementary were conducted in 16 classrooms, capturing 1,539 trips. As
shown in Figure 4-1, most student travel occurs in family vehicles, although relatively high numbers of
students walk and carpool to school as well.

  80%
                                                  74%
                                                     71%
  70%

  60%

  50%

  40%                                                                                                    AM
                                                                                                         PM
  30%

  20%
                 12%                                            11%12%
            9%
  10%
                           2% 2%     1% 2%                                     1% 1%      1% 1%
   0%
             Walk           Bike    School Bus Family Vehicle   Carpool        Transit     Other

                                   Figure 4-1: Student Hand Tally Mode Split



4-2 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                    Ocean Shore Elementary


4.2.2. Parent Survey Results                                                            City Bus/
The parent survey collected data from 31 students.                                       Transit,  Other,
                                                                                           1%       0%          Bike, 0%
As shown in Figure 4-2, three quarters of students
                                                                                                   Walk,
are driven alone to and from school. Nine percent of                   School             Carpool,  9%
students walk and most others carpool.                                 Bus, 0%              15%
Students at Ocean Shore Elementary tend to live
relatively far from school, with only 18 percent of
students living within a half mile of school, and 45
percent of students within one mile. However, as                                                     Driven
shown in Figure 4-3, even most students living                                                        Solo,
within a half mile are individually driven to school,                                                 75%
suggesting that there is a high potential for Safe
Routes to School improvements to be effective.
                                                                             Figure 4-2: Parent Survey Mode Split


           100%


                   80%
                                                                                                              Other
                              67%                                                                             City Bus/ Transit
 Percent of Mode




                   60%
                                                                                                              Carpools
                                                              53%                               93%           School Bus
                   40%                        80%                            82%
                                                                                                              Driven
                   20%                                                                                        Bikes
                                                                                                              Walks
                   0%
                         1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile   1/2 - 1 mile   1 - 2 miles       More than 2
                                                      Distance from School                    miles

                                             Figure 4-3: Trip Mode by Distance from School

Parents expressed a wide range of reservations about their children walking and bicycling to school,
particularly issues that can be addressed through programs, including lack of crossing guards, fear of stranger
danger, and lack of adults to walk or bike with, as well as traffic safety concerns. The most frequent barriers to
walking and bicycling include the following:
               ·     No crossing guards (9 percent)
               ·     Stranger danger (8 percent)
               ·     Unsafe intersections (8 percent)
               ·     No adults to walk or bike with (8 percent)
               ·     Too much traffic along the route (8 percent)
               ·     Speeding traffic along route (8 percent)
               ·     Too far from school (8 percent)



                                                                                                    4-3 | Pacifica School District
Chapter 4


When asked the most compelling reasons why they might reduce their driving to schools, parents responded
that they would appreciate easier coordination with other parents and students. Parents would also be most
interested in driving less if they were confident in their children's traffic skills or if their child wanted to
improve their health, shown in Figure 4-4.



    30%

                                                                                                            24%
    25%
                                                                       21%
    20%
                                  16%
                                                                                         15%
    15%         13%
                                                    11%
    10%

    5%

    0%
           My child wanted My child wanted My child wanted My child knew    Transit/school     It was easier to
          to make "greener" to walk/bike to to compete for how to walk and   buses better     coordinate with
               choices       improve their prizes in contests bike safely  served my child's other parents/kids
                                health                                          school

                      Figure 4-4: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School



4.3. Issues and Recommendations
4.3.1. Feasibility of Walking, Biking, and Ridesharing to School
The National Center for Safe Routes to School recommends distance targets that the majority of students who
live within 1.35 miles can walk to and from school, while the majority of students within 2.6 miles can
bicycle. 3 Shown in Table 4-1, Ocean Shore Elementary has a relatively high proportion of students who live
within a mile of the school, compared to other schools in the district. Of the students who live within a half-
mile of school, 23 percent already walk and no students bicycle, likely due to steep topography and a lack of
bikeways appropriate for students. Ocean Shore Elementary also has a relatively high proportion of carpooling
for students who live a mile or more away from school.




3 This is based on the finding that people are generally willing to travel about 30 minutes each way, regardless of travel
mode. Assuming a student walking speed of 2.7 miles per hour and a bicycling speed of 8 mph, a child can travel 1.35
miles by foot or 4 miles via bicycle in 30 minutes. However, accounting for stop light interruptions, hilly terrain, and
other factors, the National Center recommends a student bicycling distance target of 2.6 miles.
http://www.saferoutesinfo.org/program-tools/what-distances-are-reasonable-expect-elementary-school-students-bike-
school


4-4 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                    Ocean Shore Elementary


                     Table 4-1: Ocean Shore Elementary Mode Split by Distance from School

                          Percent of                                  School                 City Bus/
Distance from School      Enrollment    Walks     Bikes    Driven      Bus      Carpools      Transit     Other

1/4 mile or less                 16%         8%       0%      88%          0%          4%           0%        0%

1/4 - 1/2 mile                   19%        15%       0%      78%          0%          7%           0%        0%

1/2 - 1 mile                     6%          0%       0%     100%          0%          0%           0%        0%

1 - 2 miles                      22%         0%       0%      77%          0%        23%            0%        0%

More than 2 miles                38%         0%       0%      59%          0%        29%            0%      12%

Grand Total                     100%         4%      0%       74%          0%        18%            0%       4%

Source: Parent Survey Results


Figure 4-5: Ocean Shore Elementary Enrollment Map shows that several students live within a half-mile of
the school, and other students are clustered to the south and to the northeast. This pattern indicates potential
for carpool encouragement to shift families away from driving alone to school.




                                                                                    4-5 | Pacifica School District
Chapter 4




                                 Figure 4-5: Ocean Shore Elementary Enrollment Map




4-6 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                       Ocean Shore Elementary


4.3.2. Engineering Improvements
Engineering recommendations are shown and mapped in Figure 4-6: Ocean Shore Elementary
Improvement Plan. Improvement identification numbers reference numbers on the figure.

                                                            School Parking Lot
                                                            The access drive off of Oceana Boulevard leads to
                                                            staff and visitor parking, as well as the vehicular
                                                            drop off/pick up area at the school's main entrance.
                                                            The eastern portion of the parking lot circulates
                                                            traffic in a one-way flow with angled parking off of
                                                            the travel lane. The western portion of the parking
                                                            lot circulates traffic in a one-way flow to the exit
                                                            onto the Edgemar Avenue cul-de-sac. At this
                                                            egress, there is one travel lane marked with two
                                                            white pavement arrows. There is a "Do Not Enter"
                                                            sign posted at the egress. In addition, there are
                                                            speed bumps along the travel lane to slow down
          The loading loop at Ocean Shore School
                                                            traffic.


                                                              The audit team observed that parents commonly do
                                                              not pull over to the curb, but rather stop in the
                                                              middle of the travel lane to drop off their children.
                                                              The act of stopping and unloading in the drive isle is
                                                              unsafe and frequently causes a backup of cars in the
                                                              drive isle. A parent volunteer stated that the most
                                                              automobile congestion occurs during the afternoon
                                                              pick-up. While the audit team did not notice
                                                              drivers speeding through the parking lot during the
                                                              morning of the audit, school staff reported that
                                                              speeding has been an issue in the past. The
                                                              installation of the speed bumps has helped to slow
                                                              down traffic. Another common issue raised by a
      The one-way parking lot exit at Edgemar Avenue;
   parents often attempt to enter the parking lot from here   staff member are cars and delivery trucks illegally
                                                              entering the parking lot the wrong way (from the
eastern exit) to drive through the parking lot to access Oceana Boulevard. Although there is a "Do Not Enter"
sign posted at the parking lot's egress, the sign is not visible from all vantage points on Edgemar Avenue's cul-
de-sac.
There are several daycares located along the section of Edgemar Avenue immediately adjacent to the Ocean
Shore School. The daycares have morning drop offs between 7:00 to 7:30 am. There is perpendicular on-street
parking on Edgemar Avenue in front of two of the daycares. Parents use the on-street parking and the cul-de-
sac as a loading zone for dropping off and picking up their children. There is high demand for loading zone



                                                                                       4-7 | Pacifica School District
Chapter 4


space during morning and afternoon drop off/pick up times. Ocean Shore School parents and neighboring
daycare parents both use a relatively short street for loading.
Participants who attended the Safe Routes to School audit said Edgemar Avenue becomes a very hectic street,
especially during the afternoon pickup time. Participants noted they have witnessed many near misses of
vehicle/pedestrian collisions.
Recommendations (ID #1)
    ·    Narrow the parking lot exit to one lane and paint a one MUTCD standard size white arrow on the
         exit lane. Make sure the narrowed lane is still wide enough to allow for emergency vehicle access.
    ·    Install a "No Right Turn" sign on the northwest approach to the exit lane from Edgemar Avenue's cul-
         de-sac.
    ·    Organize teams of parent volunteers paired with students from fifth through eighth grades to monitor
         the activity in the parking lot during morning and afternoon drop off/pickup. The teams should wear
         reflective vests to be visible and also to show that they have the authority to point out unsafe driving
         in the school zone.

Oceana Boulevard
Oceana Boulevard is a two lane road that runs
along the school's western frontage. Pedestrians
access the school's main entrance and a bus
stop on Oceana Boulevard. During the evening
meeting, participants reported that drivers who
are traveling along Oceana Boulevard to access
Highway 1 appear to be driving above the
posted 25 mile per hour speed limit. The fast
moving traffic on Oceana Boulevard creates a
challenging environment for pedestrians and
bicyclists.
There are currently no crosswalks at the             The exit lane from the school parking lot onto Oceana
parking lot's driveway entrance and egress onto                            Boulevard
Oceana Boulevard. During the evening meeting, participants reported that drivers who are entering or exiting
the parking lot from Oceana Boulevard commonly do not yield to pedestrians who are crossing the driveway.
The hardware store on Oceana Boulevard is adjacent to the school's parking lot entrance and egress. In the
morning, big delivery trucks use on-street parallel parking on Oceana Boulevard to unload their deliveries to
the hardware store. Parked delivery trucks can block visibility to the school's parking lot entrance/exit, which
in turn, blocks driver's view of pedestrians crossing the driveway and vehicles entering and exiting the
parking lot.
Recommendations (ID #2)
    ·    Install speed feedback sign to the north of the school's entrance on Oceana Boulevard.
    ·    Install high-visibility yellow school zone crosswalks at the parking lot's entrance and exit onto
         Oceana Boulevard.



4-8 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                    Ocean Shore Elementary


                                                             · Work with the hardware store owner to
                                                         cone off an area six to eight feet back from the
                                                         school's parking lot entrance to prevent the delivery
                                                         trucks from blocking sight lines to the school's
                                                         parking lot entrance.

                                                         Oceana Boulevard at Manor Drive
                                                         The intersection of Manor Drive and Oceana
                                                         Boulevard is a common route for students
                                                         walking/biking to school. This is a four-way stop
                                                         intersection. The northern, eastern, and southern
                                                         legs of this intersection have white transverse
                                                         crosswalks without high-visibility cross bars. Per
White transverse crosswalks at Oceana Blvd & Manor Dr    California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
                                                         Devices (MUTCD), all crosswalks within 600 feet of
                                                         a school may be yellow. Areas of conflict are
                                                         recommended to have high visibility crosswalks.
                                                         Recommendation (ID # 3)
                                                             · Stripe the high visibility yellow school zone
                                                         crosswalks on the north, east and west legs of the
                                                         intersection of Manor Drive and Oceana Boulevard.

                                                         Manor Drive at Edgemar Avenue
                                                         The four-way stop intersection of Manor Drive and
                                                         Edgemar Avenue is a common route for students
                                                         walking/biking to school. Only the eastern leg of the
The car to the right is parked on the unpaved sidewalk
  portion, blocking the walking route of this family     intersection has a high-visibility crosswalk; other
                                                         intersection legs have no crosswalks. During the
                                                         evening meeting, participants expressed the desire to
                                                         channel students who are walking or biking to
                                                         school via Manor Drive and Edgemar Avenue to
                                                         western side of the Edgemar Avenue cul-de-sac. The
                                                         current crosswalk on the eastern leg of the
                                                         intersection forces children to the eastern side of the
                                                         Edgemar Avenue cul-de-sac where they will
                                                         eventually have to cross the street without the safety
                                                         of a crosswalk to reach the school's entrance.
                                                         Participants suggested the removal of the crosswalk
                                                         on the eastern leg of the intersection and the
                                                         addition of yellow high-visibility crosswalks at the
                                                         northern, western, and southern legs of the
  Student bicyclists crossing Manor Drive at Edgemar     intersection.
                         A



                                                                                    4-9 | Pacifica School District
Chapter 4


There is a 7-11 Store at the corner of Manor Drive and Edgemar Avenue that is very busy in the morning with
adults and students. The sidewalk on the eastern edge of the 7-11 Store's parking lot is surfaced with loose
crushed gravel, which is not an ADA accessible walking surface. During the walk audit, the team noticed a car
was parked on the sidewalk, thus blocking the safe pedestrian route to Ocean Shore School via Edgemar
Avenue. If the sidewalk was upgraded from gravel to concrete, it would look like an official sidewalk rather
than an informal parking space.
Commercial driveways along the northern side of Manor Drive between Edgemar Avenue and Oceana
Boulevard are ill-defined and wide. Students commonly walk along the northern side of Manor Drive to access
the school. The lack of defined driveways presents a safety challenge for pedestrians walking along this side of
Manor Drive.
Recommendations (ID # 4)
    ·    Remove the crosswalk on the eastern leg of the intersection and install high-visibility yellow school
         zone crosswalks at the northern, western, and southern legs of the intersection.
    ·    Upgrade sidewalk on Edgemar Avenue along the 7-11 Store's frontage from crushed gravel to concrete
         pavement.
    ·    Work with the City and 7-11 Store owner to reduce width of driveways along northern side of Manor
         Drive between Edgemar Avenue and Oceana Boulevard.

Oceana Boulevard at Monterey Road
The curb radius at the southeast corner of Oceana Boulevard and Monterey Road is very wide which
encourages drivers to turn the corner onto Monterey Road at unsafe speeds. In the morning and afternoon,
students are commonly crossing Monterey Road to get to the school, the bus stop on Oceana Boulevard, or
their home. Cars turning the corner onto Monterey Road are commonly travelling too fast to stop quickly for
pedestrians crossing the street.
Recommendation (ID # 5)
    ·    Reduce the radius at the southeast corner of Oceana
         Boulevard and Monterey Road to encourage drivers to
         slow down as they turn onto Monterey Road.

Monterey Road at Waterford Street
The intersection of Monterey Road and Waterford Street is a
common route for students walking/biking to school and to the
nearby bus stops on Waterford Street and Oceana Boulevard.
Students and parents walking from Waterford Street enter the
schoolyard through a pedestrian gate off of Monterey Road.
Audit participants noted drivers on Monterey Road who are
eager to get on the highway are often driving above the speed
limit. Currently, there is no crosswalk on Monterey Road at the
Waterford Street intersection. The combination of speeding
cars and lack of a crosswalk makes this a challenging                    One of the two pedestrian gates on
pedestrian crossing.                                                               Monterey Road



4-10 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                    Ocean Shore Elementary


About 120 feet to the east of the intersection, there is a yellow high-visibility crosswalk on Monterey Road
that leads to a gate at the northeast corner of the schoolyard. The crosswalk is paired with a school crossing
sign. The north end of the crosswalk leads into a residential driveway ramp and the south end of the
crosswalk doesn't have a curb ramp. In addition, a stair connection is the only formal access to the schoolyard
gate.
Recommendations (ID # 6)
    ·   Install a speed feedback sign on Monterey Road.
    ·   Remove existing crosswalk on Monterey Road.
    ·   Stripe a high-visibility yellow crosswalk approximately 20 feet west of existing crosswalk, with curb
        ramps at both ends.
    ·   Install Assembly D signage 100 feet in advance of crossing and Assembly B signage and pedestrian-
        activated Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacons (RRFBs) at the crossing.
    ·   Conduct a warrant study for a three-way stop control for the intersection of Monterey Road and
        Waterford Street to see if a stop sign is warranted.

Johnson Avenue at Nelson Avenue
Students and parents access the schoolyard through a pedestrian gate at the end of Nelson Avenue. Drivers
often use the dead end of Nelson Avenue as an informal loading/unloading area. This is a hectic loading zone,
where drivers frequently make U-turns and block access to residential driveways. The vehicular activity in
this area makes pedestrian access and safety a challenge.
Recommendation (ID #7)
    ·   Install "No U-turn" signage for westbound drivers on Nelson Avenue.
    ·   Stripe high-visibility yellow school zone crosswalk in the southern leg of the intersection of Johnson
        Avenue and Nelson Avenue.

Fremont Avenue at Nelson Avenue
The intersection of Fremont Avenue at Nelson Avenue in not an aligned intersection and is uncontrolled for
those on Fremont Avenue. At the evening meeting, participants indicated that drivers travelling on Fremont
Ave often cross the intersection without looking for pedestrians or bicyclists.
Recommendation (ID #8)
    ·   Conduct a warrant study for stop control on Fremont Avenue at Nelson Avenue. Install STOP signs
        on Fremont Avenue, if warranted.
    ·   If not, install YIELD signs and "shark teeth" yield pavement markings.

Engineering Improvement Summary
Table 4-2 lists the recommended improvements to address safety and circulation issues around Ocean Shore
School and Figure 4-6 presents an improvement plan of these recommendations. The project identification
numbers in Table 4-2 correspond to those in Figure 4-6. The table identifies the agency likely to lead the
improvement, the recommended priority level for implementation, and a planning level cost estimate. The
priority level is based upon the anticipated safety and encouragement impact, the projected cost, and the
feasibility of implementation.



                                                                                  4-11 | Pacifica School District
Chapter 4


                          Table 4-2: Ocean Shore Elementary Recommended Improvements

ID Location                  Recommendations                                           Lead       Priority   Cost
                                                                                       Agency

1    School Parking Lot           · Narrow parking lot exit at Edgemar Ave to one      District   High          $5,000
                                    lane, paint white arrow pavement marking in
                                    travel isle.
                                  · Install "No-Right Turn" sign on Edgemar Avenue
                                    for southbound drivers at parking lot exit
                                  · Organize parent and student volunteers to
                                    manage activity in parking lot


2    Oceana Boulevard             · Install speed feedback sign north of the school    City &     Middle       $11,000
                                    parking lot for northbound drivers
                                                                                       School
                                  · Install high-visibility yellow school zone
                                    crosswalks across school parking lot driveways on
                                    Oceana Blvd.
                                  · Work with hardware store owner to cone-off curb
                                    6-8 feet in advance of school parking lot entrance


3    Oceana Boulevard at          · Replace white transverse crosswalks with high-     City       High          $1,500
                                   visibility yellow school zone crosswalks.
     Manor Drive


4    Manor Drive at               · Remove yellow crosswalk in eastern leg of          City       High         $11,000
                                    intersection and install high-visibility yellow
     Edgemar Ave
                                    crosswalks in north, west, and south legs.
                                  · Close sidewalk gap in Edgemar Ave.
                                  · Reduce width of curb cuts on north side of Manor
                                    St at the 7-Eleven


5    Oceana Boulevard at          · Reduce turn radius with curb extension.            City       Low          $15,000
     Monterey Road

6    Monterey Road at             · Base option: Install speed feedback sign on        City       High         $15,000
                                    Monterey Road for westbound drivers
     Waterford Street
                                  · Remove yellow transverse crosswalk on
                                    Monterey Road
                                  · Install high-visibility yellow school zone
                                    crosswalk approximately 20 feet west of
                                    existing crosswalk, with curb ramps at both
                                    ends
                                  · Install Assembly D signage approximately 100
                                    feet in advance of crossing and Assembly B
                                    signage and pedestrian-activated Rectangular
                                    Rapid Flashing Beacons (RRFBs) at the crossing




4-12 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                            Ocean Shore Elementary


ID Location               Recommendations                                           Lead        Priority       Cost
                                                                                    Agency

7   Johnson Avenue at       · Install "No U-turn" sign for westbound drivers on     City        High               $1,500
                              Nelson Avenue.
    Nelson Avenue
                            · Stripe high-visibility yellow school zone crosswalk
                              in southern leg of the intersection.


8   Fremont Avenue at       · Conduct a warrant study for stop control on the       City        Middle             $5,000
                              north and south approaches, install stop signs on
    Nelson Avenue
                              Fremont Avenue, if warranted
                            · If does not meet warrant, install yield signs and
                              advance yield lines


Total Cost                                                                                                  $$65,000.00



4.3.3. Recommended Education, Encouragement and Ridesharing Programs
Because of the numbers of students at Ocean Shore Elementary who live within a mile from the school,
students and parents should be educated about walking and bicycling. The parent survey suggests that
bicycle rodeos and traffic skills instruction in and outside the classroom would help students become more
comfortable walking and bicycling to school. These courses could also emphasize the health benefits of
walking and bicycling to school. The school should also develop a walking school bus program to help parents
living close to one another coordinate, addressing both stranger danger and a lack of trusted adults to walk
with their children.
In addition, the school and SR2S program should promote activities and events that encourage bus usage and
carpooling among students who live further than a mile from school. For the students living further away from
school, coordination programs such as the 511 SchoolPool RideMatching service can be used to find
ridesharing partners.
Key programmatic recommendations for Ocean Shore Elementary are listed below. These programs and others
are described in more detail in Section 8.2.
A School Safety Campaign implemented through a variety of media outlets can reduce the frequency of illegal
and unsafe driving behavior. Such a campaign would help to address parental concerns about traffic and
intersection crossings as well as unsafe motorist behavior, and would improve safety for students walking and
bicycling to school.
    ·   A circulation map would help to alleviate traffic congestion at Ocean Shore Elementary, symbolized
        by blue dashed lines in Figure 4-6. These circulation maps could be distributed via school
        newsletters and websites.
    ·   Walking school buses can encourage families to walk to school together or can enable busy families
        to coordinate with other parents who already walk their children to school. A walking school bus
        should have a regular route and a parent contact to oversee the program.
    ·   Carpooling can be encouraged with the use of the 511 SchoolPool Tool, a ride matching service that
        locates families with similar commutes and facilitates coordination so they can commute to school

                                                                                           4-13 | Pacifica School District
Chapter 4


         together. Ocean Shore Elementary has a high density of families who live too far to walk, and with
         steep terrain that discourages bicycling, but who could carpool together to and from school.
    ·    Parent and student volunteers can be trained as parent or student valets to manage traffic and assist
         in loading and can significantly improve safety and the traffic flow around schools. Volunteers can be
         outfitted with florescent vests to increase their visibility and denote their role as a school
         representative. While valet duties are not suitable for young children, students in the 4th grade and
         above can act effectively as a valet program when under adult supervision.
    ·    Bike rodeos can teach children to operate bicycles safely and confidently. Bicycle rodeos would
         improve student bicycling skills and would likely increase parents' confidence and willingness to
         allow their children to bike to and from school.
         .




4-14 | Pacifica School District
                                                       Ocean Shore Elementary




Figure 4-6: Ocean Shore Elementary Improvement Plan


                                                      4-15 | Pacifica School District
Chapter 4


This page intentionally left blank.




4-16 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                           Ortega Elementary




5. Ortega Elementary Recommendations
5.1. School Information
Principal:       Marc Lorenzen
Enrollment:      560 Students, K-5
Arrival:         All Grades ­ 8:30 AM
Dismissal:       Kindergarten ­ 12:30 PM
                 Grades 1-3 ­ 2:35 PM
                 Grades 4-5 ­ 2:50 PM

5.1.1. Layout                                                              Ortega Elementary
Ortega Elementary School is located on Terra Nova
Boulevard, approximately 1800 feet from Terra Nova High School. It is nestled in a residential neighborhood
with steep hills in most directions. There is a one way loading zone through school parking to the main
school entrance. Students access the school site from the loading zone and adjacent sidewalks.
Students commute from all over the city of Pacifica, with most traveling to the school from the south on Terra
Nova Boulevard. Steep hills in all other directions present a barrier to walking and bicycling.

5.1.2. Site Visit
The project team conducted a walk audit at Ortega Elementary School on March 22, 2012 during morning
drop-off. The weather was cool with light rain. The school day begins at 8:30 for all grades. The walking audit
was followed with a meeting during the afternoon, at which school principal, five parents, and one youth
attended to discuss their experience accessing the school and suggestions for improvement.

5.1.3. Loading Zones
There is one official loading zone, but two on-street areas
adjacent to the school building are also used. The official loading
zone is accessed from Terra Nova Boulevard, with traffic
proceeding in a one-way direction around a loop at the front of
the school. There are two rubber speed bumps in the path of
travel. Traffic splits into two lanes in the parking lot, with some
students unloading at the curb and other students unloading in
the middle of the street, assisted by an adult volunteer. During
the site visit, the volunteer was not wearing a yellow vest, though
she usually does.

5.1.4. Crossing Guard Location
There are no crossing guards at Ortega Elementary School. One
                                                                        Ortega Elementary holds "Low Carbon
parent volunteer regularly assists children in the school loading
                                                                        Fridays" to encourage students to walk
zone.


                                                                                    5-1 | Pacifica School District
Chapter 5


5.1.5. Existing Programs
Ortega Elementary School already has a Green Team, headed by a parent volunteer. The school's programs
include a "Lower Your Carbon Footprint Friday" during which students are encouraged to walk or carpool to
school. There are bike racks on the school site, generally used by one or two students.

5.2. Travel Survey Results
5.2.1. Student Hand Tally Results
Student hand tallies at Ortega Elementary were conducted in 17 classrooms, capturing 2,163 trips. As shown in
Figure 5-1, most students are driven in a family vehicles and several students walk or carpool.



  80%                                             78%
                                                         71%
  70%

  60%

  50%

  40%                                                                                                          AM
                                                                                                               PM
  30%

  20%
           11%11%                                                      11%
                                                                  8%
  10%                                                                                   4%
                           1% 0%     1% 2%                                         1%          0% 0%
   0%
             Walk           Bike    School Bus Family Vehicle     Carpool          Transit      Other

                                   Figure 5-1: Student Hand Tally Mode Split

5.2.2. Parent Survey Results
                                                                       City Bus/   Other,
The parent survey collected data from 51 students                                             Walk, 4%
                                                                        Transit,    4%
via 50 surveys. Three-quarters of students are                                                    Bike, 0%
                                                                          0%
driven individually to school each day, with a
relatively high percentage carpooling with other
students. Figure 5-2 shows the mode split reported                           Carpool,
                                                                               18%
in all parent surveys.                                  School
                                                        Bus, 0%
Thirty-five percent of students live within a half
mile of the school site, and the overwhelming
                                                                                              Driven
majority of these students are individually driven to
                                                                                             Solo, 74%
and from school, as shown in Figure 5-3. This
suggests high potential for Safe Routes to School
Improvements at Ortega Elementary.
                                                                        Figure 5-2: Parent Survey Mode Split


5-2 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                         Ortega Elementary


           100%

                   80%                                                                                     Other
                              67%                                                                          City Bus/ Transit
                   60%
 Percent of Mode




                                                                                                           Carpools
                                                                 53%                           93%
                   40%                         80%                              82%                        School Bus
                                                                                                           Driven
                   20%
                                                                                                           Bikes
                   0%                                                                                      Walks
                         1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile   1/2 - 1 mile      1 - 2 miles   More than 2
                                                                                             miles
                                                      Distance from School
                                              Figure 5-3: Trip Mode by Distance from School

Parents expressed a range of reservations about their children walking and bicycling to school. Four of the
parents' top five concerns were related to traffic, including a lack of crossing guards, unsafe intersections, and
traffic speeds and volumes. The most frequent barriers to walking and bicycling include the following:
               ·     No crossing guards (10 percent)                       ·    Too much traffic along the route (9 percent)
               ·     Unsafe intersections (10 percent)                     ·    Stranger danger (7 percent)
               ·     Speeding traffic along route (10 percent)
Parents were also asked which reasons they found most compelling to reduce their driving to and from school.
Their responses are shown in Figure 5-4. Nearly one third of parents would feel more comfortable if their
children knew how to walk and bicycle safely. Other promising possibilities included better coordination
with other parents and students and better transit and school bus connections at the school.



   35%                                                                         32%

   30%

   25%
                                                                                               21%                 21%
   20%

   15%
                                            12%
   10%                     9%
                                                             6%
         5%

         0%
                      My child wanted My child wanted My child wanted My child knew    Transit/school     It was easier to
                     to make "greener" to walk/bike to to compete for how to walk and   buses better     coordinate with
                          choices       improve their prizes in contests bike safely  served my child's other parents/kids
                                           health                                          school

                                Figure 5-4: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School



                                                                                                 5-3 | Pacifica School District
Chapter 8



5.3. Issues and Recommendations
5.3.1. Feasibility of Walking, Biking, and Ridesharing to School
The National Center for Safe Routes to School recommends distance targets that the majority of students who
live within 1.35 miles can walk to and from school, while the majority of students within 2.6 miles can
bicycle. 4 As shown in Table 5-1, only 18 percent of students live within a half-mile of school.

Steep topography around Ortega Elementary limits the potential for students to bicycle to and from school.
However, the enrollment map shows that students live in relatively dense distribution to the east and west of
the school. This pattern indicates potential for encouraging students to carpool and take transit where
appropriate.


                         Table 5-1: Ortega Elementary Mode Split by Distance from School

                            Percent of                                      School                   City Bus/
Distance from School       Enrollment       Walks      Bikes     Driven      Bus       Carpools       Transit     Other

1/4 mile or less                   12%          33%        0%       67%           0%          0%            0%        0%

1/4 - 1/2 mile                      6%           0%        0%       80%           0%         20%            0%        0%

1/2 - 1 mile                       27%          18%        0%       53%           1%         25%            2%        0%

1 - 2 miles                        33%           0%        0%       82%           0%         16%            1%        0%

More than 2 miles                  22%           0%        0%       93%           0%          7%            0%        0%

Grand Total                      100%            9%       0%        75%          0%          15%            1%       0%

Source: Parent Survey Results


Because of the large numbers of students at Ortega Elementary who live more than a mile from the school,
parents should be educated about transportation options, including SamTrans schedules and routes, as well
as the SchoolPool RideMatching tool. In addition, the school and SR2S program should promote activities and
events that encourage bus usage and carpooling.




4 This is based on the finding that people are generally willing to travel about 30 minutes each way, regardless of travel
mode. Assuming a student walking speed of 2.7 miles per hour and a bicycling speed of 8 mph, a child can travel 1.35
miles by foot or 4 miles via bicycle in 30 minutes. However, accounting for stop light interruptions, hilly terrain, and
other factors, the National Center recommends a student bicycling distance target of 2.6 miles.
http://www.saferoutesinfo.org/program-tools/what-distances-are-reasonable-expect-elementary-school-students-bike-
school


5-4 | Pacifica School District
                                                       Ortega Elementary




Figure 5-5: Ortega Elementary Enrollment Map




                                           Safe Routes to School Report | 9-1
Chapter 8



5.3.2. Engineering Improvements
Engineering recommendations are shown and mapped in Figure 5-6. Improvement identification numbers
reference numbers on the figure.

Main Passenger Loading Zone
Traffic splits into two informal lanes of traffic soon after entering the parking lot. While the zone was
probably not intended to accommodate two travel lanes, it is embedded in travel patterns and likely to make
passenger loading and unloading more efficient. Students are unloaded between two travel lanes which is
generally not a best practice, despite assistance from a volunteer. The width of the passenger loading area
varies from 25 to 26 feet.
Recommendations (ID #1)
    ·    The volunteer assisting with passenger loading and unloading should always wear a reflective vest.
    ·    While not best practice, the two lane loading is preferred by those who participated in the audit. If
         kept, a hatched area between the two loading lanes should be striped. This will provide a landing area
         for students exiting vehicles in the middle of the pavement and provide the volunteer a more secure
         location to stand. Consideration should be given to liability issues that may arise from formalizing the
         two-lane drop-off area.

                                                   Terra Nova Boulevard
                                                   Terra Nova Boulevard is the main street that accesses the
                                                   school. It is a local collector street that also serves Terra
                                                   Nova High School and therefore sees high traffic volumes. A
                                                   SamTrans bus that picks students up for other schools
                                                   stops in front of Ortega Elementary School, boarding at
                                                   8:20.
                                                   Many parents park on the east side of Terra Nova
                                                   Boulevard. They then either walk their children into the
                                                   school site or send them across the street unaccompanied.
School-related traffic congestion on Terra Nova    While there is an existing crosswalk at Lerida Way,
Boulevard challenges motorists and pedestrians.    jaywalking is very common in this location in front of the
                                                   school.
A high volume of school traffic comes from the south and attempts to turn left into the parking lot. Because of
the high demand for access to the loading zone, access is a challenge for those who wish to turn left and traffic
backs up to the south on Terra Nova Boulevard as far as Aspen Drive.
Recommendations (ID #2 and #3)
    ·    Install a high visibility yellow school zone crosswalk across from the school building accompanied by
         an advance warning signage, a Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacon and advance yield lines to improve
         visibility. A crossing guard should monitor the site, an improvement that would minimize impacts to
         traffic flow. No formalized crossing should be implemented at this location without additional
         improvements.



5-6 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                           Ortega Elementary


    ·   Stripe a red curb at the bus stop on Terra Nova Boulevard to improve visibility and the efficiency of
        transit operations.
    ·   Install curb ramps at Lerida Way.
    ·   Work with St. Andrew Presbyterian Church to establish a park and walk location in the parking lot.
    ·   Stripe a high visibility yellow school zone crosswalk at Alicante Way and install curb ramps.

Lerida Way
Lerida Way serves as the school's northeastern boundary. It
is a steep residential street that connects Terra Nova
Boulevard to Crespi Drive. There are some parents that drop
their children off on Lerida Way, but this practice is
relatively uncommon. A high-visibility crosswalk crosses
the street at Poplar Avenue, connecting to a gate to the
school yard. There is no path between the gate and the
school buildings. Youth sports leagues use the athletic
facilities for games. Parents in attendance at the meeting
suggested that students used the gate during nice weather
but did not like to walk through the field during wet              A pathway from Lerida Way could become a key
weather.                                                              component of a secondary drop-off area.
Developing a secondary drop-off area at this location could
relieve some pressure from the main loading zone. Currently SamTrans buses have a brief layover at the
intersection of Lerida Way and Elm Court. If additional space is needed for a secondary loading zone, the
district should negotiate with SamTrans to establish an alternate location.
Recommendations (ID #4)
    ·   Develop a path from the Poplar Avenue crosswalk to the school buildings. This path could be
        oriented and designed to minimize impacts to the athletic fields by using soft-surface materials.
    ·   Install curb ramps at the Poplar Street crosswalk.
    ·   Encourage the parents of older children to drop their students off at Lerida Way instead of the main
        loading zone. The circulation plan can include routing vehicles up Alicante Drive and Redwood Way
        or down Lerida Way from Crespi Drive. This will
        relieve the pressure on the main passenger loading
        zone and reduce congestion in the school area.

Alicante Path
A path approaches the school from the south on Alicante
Drive. The path is not currently well used, possibly due to
its physical condition and a lack of visibility from the street.
Recommendations (ID #5)
    ·   Ensure that a continuously paved route exists
        between Alicante Drive and the school site along
        this path.                                                   Completion of this path would provide an
    ·   Consider striping a high-visibility yellow school             alternative walking route from the west.


                                                                              Safe Routes to School Report | 9-1
Chapter 8


           zone crosswalk across Alicante Drive to increase access to the path. This crosswalk should include
           Assembly B signage and school crossing stenciling. Alternatively, install a barrier directing
           pedestrians to the crosswalk at Banyan Way.

 Linda Mar Boulevard at Oddstad Boulevard
The intersection of Linda Mar Boulevard and Oddstad Boulevard was cited as a challenging location for
pedestrians and bicyclists. Traffic coming from Linda Mar Boulevard is not required to stop. Because of the
width of the intersection, this turn can be made at fast speeds. Increasing the complexity of the intersection is
that traffic turning right from Oddstad Boulevard is not required to stop, but traffic continuing straight has a
stop sign placed in the center median and STOP stenciled in the pavement. This intersection is located along
the route to school for one of the parents attending the meeting. A common potential walking route to school
would involve crossing Aspen Drive on Oddstad Boulevard, where there is no crosswalk.
Recommendations (ID #6)
     ·     Conduct a warrant study for an all-way stop control.
     ·     Decrease the turning radius for vehicles turning right from Oddstad Boulevard.
     ·     Stripe a transverse crosswalk across Aspen Drive at the intersection with Oddstad Boulevard.

Engineering Improvement Summary
Table 5-2 lists the recommended improvements to address circulation issues around Ortega Elementary and
Figure 5-6 presents an improvement plan of these recommendations. The project IDs in Table 5-2
correspond to those in Figure 5-6. The table identifies the agency likely to lead the improvement, the
recommended priority level for implementation, and a planning level cost estimate. The priority level is based
on the anticipated safety and circulation benefit, the feasibility of implementation, and the projected cost.


                            Table 5-2: Ortega Elementary Recommended Improvements

ID       Location         Recommendations                                              Lead       Priority   Cost
                                                                                       Agency     Level

1        School Parking     · Establish a student valet in the main loading zone to    District       High      $600
                              assist with passenger pick-up and drop-off
         Lot
                            · Ensure that volunteers and staff wear yellow vests
                            · Stripe a 3' wide hatched area between the lanes in
                              the loading zone


2        Terra Nova         · Stripe a high-visibility yellow crosswalk across Terra   City           High     $2,600
                              Nova Boulevard, install advance warning signage,                                      +
         Boulevard
                              rectangular rapid flashing beacons, and advance                                Crossing
                              yield lines; deploy crossing guard                                               Guard
                            · Stripe red curbs at the bus stop and immediately
                              before the parking lot entrance




5-8 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                Ortega Elementary


ID   Location          Recommendations                                               Lead       Priority   Cost
                                                                                     Agency     Level

3    Terra Nova          · Install curb ramps at Lerida Way                          City,      Medium      $20,500
     Boulevard           · Restripe Alicante Drive crosswalk as high visibility
                           yellow; install curb ramps at Alicante Drive
                                                                                     District
                         · Work with St. Andrew Presbyterian Church to
                           establish a park and walk location in the parking lot


4    Lerida Way          · Develop a path from the Poplar Avenue crosswalk to District              Low     $16,100
                           the school building; minimize impacts to athletic
                           fields
                         · Install curb ramps and red curb at the Poplar Street
                           crosswalk
                         · Encourage the parents of older children to drop their
                           students off at Lerida Way


5    Alicante Path       · Close the gap in the paved route between Alicante         City       Medium       $5,100
                           Drive and the school site
                         · Consider striping a high-visibility yellow school
                           crosswalk across Alicante Drive to increase access to
                           the path; alternatively, install a barrier directing
                           pedestrians to Banyan Way


5    Linda Mar           · Decrease turning radius for vehicles turning right        City       Medium      $31,100
                           from Oddstad Boulevard
     Boulevard at
                         · Conduct a warrant study to make the intersection an
     Oddstad               all-way stop
     Boulevard           · Stripe a transverse crosswalk across Aspen Drive at
                           the intersection with Oddstad Boulevard


Total Cost                                                                                                 $76,000



5.3.3. Recommended Education, Encouragement and Ridesharing Programs
While the school's location and traffic volumes pose challenges to students wishing to walk and bicycle to
school, the Ortega Elementary can build on its existing programs and active parental network to implement
additional measures to encourage walking and bicycling to school safely.
The parent survey results suggest that walking and bicycling education programs could be especially effective
at Ortega Elementary, with one third of parents responding that better student traffic skills would be a
compelling reason to reduce their driving to school. School assemblies and in-classroom activities designed to
teach traffic skills are recommended, along with bike rodeos. Opportunities for coordination between parents
are also promising, suggesting that the school should support a SchoolPool program to encourage families
living close together to carpool or otherwise travel to school together.




                                                                                   Safe Routes to School Report | 9-1
Chapter 8



Recommendations:
    ·    Walking school buses were a popular suggestion among parents.

Programmatic Recommendations
Key programmatic recommendations are listed below. These programs and others are described in more detail
in Section 8.2.
    ·    Establishing a park-and-walk to the south along Terra Nova Boulevard would enable parents to drop
         their children off and either walk the last leg of the journey into school or link them with other
         parents who can complete the journey to school with their children. Locations may include the Terra
         Nova Christian Day Care, the Pacifica Sanchez Library, and the Park Pacifica Shopping Center. The
         school should inquire at these establishments about such a partnership. Such a program can disperse
         congestion through a larger area around the school site and demonstrate solidarity with their peers
         who walk and bike to school.
    ·    Student volunteers can be trained as student valets to manage traffic and assist in loading and can
         significantly improve safety and the traffic flow around schools. Volunteers can be outfitted with
         florescent vests to increase their visibility and denote their role as a school representative. While valet
         duties are not suitable for young children, students in the 4th grade and above can act effectively as a
         valet program when under adult supervision.
    ·    Walking school buses can encourage families to walk to school together or can enable busy families
         to coordinate with other parents who already walk their children to school. A walking school bus
         should have a regular route and a parent contact to oversee the program.
    ·    A circulation map would help to alleviate traffic congestion at Ortega Elementary, symbolized by
         blue dashed lines in Figure 5-6. These circulation maps could be distributed via school newsletters
         and websites.
    ·    Carpooling can be encouraged with the use of the 511 SchoolPool Tool, a ride matching service that
         locates families with similar commutes and facilitates coordination so they can commute to school
         together. Ortega Elementary has a high density of families who live too far to walk, and with steep
         terrain that discourages bicycling, but who could carpool together to and from school.
    ·    Bike rodeos should be held to teach children to operate bicycles safely and confidently. Bicycle
         rodeos would improve student bicycling skills and would likely increase parents' confidence and
         willingness to allow their children to bike to and from school.




5-10 | Pacifica School District
                                                               Ortega Elementary




Figure 5-6: Ortega Elementary Improvement Plan


                                                 Safe Routes to School Report | 5-11
Chapter 5


This page intentionally left blank.




5-12 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                     Sunset Ridge Elementary




6. Sunset Ridge Elementary
   Recommendations
6.1. School Information
Principal:         Ellie Cundiff
Vice Principal: Monicao Lobao
Enrollment:        660 Students, K-5
Arrival:           All Grades ­ 8:25 AM
Dismissal:         Kindergarten ­ 2:25
                   1st ­ 5th Grades ­ 2:41 PM
                                                                          Sunset Ridge Elementary


6.1.1. Layout
Sunset Ridge Elementary School is situated in a residential neighborhood on a hill that overlooks the Pacific
Ocean. Its entrance is on Inverness Drive, a short block up from Hickey Boulevard, a minor arterial road. There
is a parking lot with a loading zone in front of the main school building.
Students access the school site from:
    ·      A pedestrian walkway through the main parking lot.
    ·      A pedestrian path that connects Hickey Boulevard with the faculty parking lot.

The school location presents challenges for walking and bicycling. The site is unapproachable without
ascending or descending a steep hill. A bike rack prominently located on school grounds was empty of
bicycles and administrators generally discourage students from bicycling or skateboarding to school. While
students are located throughout Pacifica, many students live within walking distance, and walking to school
is not uncommon.

6.1.2. Site Visit
The project team conducted a walk audit at Sunset Ridge Elementary School on Thursday, March 8, 2012
during afternoon dismissal times. Weather was warm and sunny. Kindergarten classes are dismissed at 2:25
and all other grades are dismissed at 2:41. All grades arrive at 8:25 AM. The vice principal explained that travel
conditions are not generally worse in the morning than in the afternoon. Five stakeholders attended an
evening meeting to discuss safety and accessibility issues.

6.1.3. Loading Zones
There is one official off-street loading zone to allow parents to pick up their children, located in the main
parking lot off Inverness Avenue. There is an informal passenger loading location at the intersection of
Catalina Avenue and Hickey Boulevard, where a pedestrian path connects the street to the school site. Many
parents park on nearby streets such as Inverness Avenue and Horizon Way.




                                                                               Safe Routes to School Report | 6-1
Chapter 6


6.1.4. Crossing Guard Location
One crossing guard, funded by the school district, monitors the intersection of Hickey Boulevard and
Inverness Avenue. It is a busy three-way stop intersection and the crossing guard monitors all three legs,
generally channeling students to the southeast and southwest legs. The crossing guard is outfitted with the
appropriate vest and a hand-held stop sign.

6.2. Travel Survey Results
6.2.1. Student Hand Tally Results
Student hand tallies at Sunset Ridge Elementary were conducted in 19 classrooms, capturing 2,680 trips. As
shown in Figure 6-1, most student travel occurs in family vehicles. Over fifteen percent of students reported
walking or bicycling to school, which is encouraging for a neighborhood with challenging topography.

  80%                                             78% 76%

  70%

  60%

  50%

  40%                                                                                                       AM
                                                                                                            PM
  30%
                 16%
  20%      16%

  10%                                                                 7%
                                                                 4%
                           1% 0%     0% 0%                                       1% 0%        0% 0%
   0%
             Walk           Bike   School Bus Family Vehicle     Carpool         Transit       Other

                                   Figure 6-1: Student Hand Tally Mode Split

6.2.2. Parent Survey Results
The parent survey collected data from 14 students. This small                              Walk,
                                                                                            6%
amount of data skews the results and should be considered             Carpool,
when comparing the baseline data to future surveys.                     21%

The overwhelming majority of students arrived in a car, with
74 percent of students driven alone and 21 percent of
students carpooling, shown in Figure 6-2. Six percent of
trips to and from school were taken on foot.
At Sunset Ridge Elementary, 31 percent of students live                                                Driven
within a half-mile of school, and 54 percent of students live                                           Solo,
more than a mile away. Due to steep topography and long                                                 74%

travel distances, many biking strategies may be less effective
than carpool and transit encouragement programs.                        Figure 6-2: Parent Survey Mode Split



6-2 | Pacifica School District
                                               Sunset Ridge Elementary Walking Bicycling, and Ridesharing Feasibility


           100%

                   80%                                                                                       Other
                                                                                                             City Bus/ Transit
 Percent of Mode




                   60%
                                                             100%             100%                           Carpools
                   40%        63%                                                                            School Bus
                                                                                               70%
                                                                                                             Driven
                   20%
                                                                                                             Bikes

                   0%                                                                                        Walks
                         1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile   1/2 - 1 mile   1 - 2 miles    More than 2
                                                     Distance from School                  miles

                                                Figure 6-3: Trip Mode by Distance to School

When asked about the barriers preventing their children from walking or bicycling to school, parents cited a
range of reservations including the convenience of driving, personal safety concerns, a lack of trusted adults to
accompany their children, traffic safety concerns, and distance from school. The most frequent barriers to
walking and bicycling include the following:
               ·     Driving is more convenient (11 percent)              ·    Too much traffic along the route (9 percent)
               ·     Stranger danger (9 percent)                          ·    Too far from school (9 percent)
               ·     No adults to walk or bike with (9 percent)
Parents were also asked about what reasons would be most compelling to reduce their driving to school. By
far the most common response was better coordination with other students and parents, as shown in Figure
6-4. This likely reflects the challenging distance and topography that make ridesharing an especially
appealing Safe Routes to School program.



   30%                                                                                                               29%

   25%

   20%

                           14%               14%              14%              14%               14%
   15%

   10%

         5%

         0%
                      My child wanted My child wanted My child wanted My child knew    Transit/school     It was easier to
                     to make "greener" to walk/bike to to compete for how to walk and   buses better     coordinate with
                          choices       improve their prizes in contests bike safely  served my child's other parents/kids
                                           health                                          school

                                 Figure 6-4: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School


                                                                                              Safe Routes to School Report | 6-3
Chapter 6


6.3. Issues and Recommendations
6.3.1. Feasibility of Walking, Biking, and Ridesharing to School
The National Center for Safe Routes to School recommends distance targets that the majority of students who
live within 1.35 miles can walk to and from school, while the majority of students within 2.6 miles can
bicycle. 5 As shown in Table 6-1 and shown in Figure 6-5, the majority of respondents to the parent survey live
more than two miles from the school. However, the survey had a very low response rate and the enrollment
map shows that a number of students live within a half-mile of the school, indicating that strategies to
encourage walking and bicycling may be more effective at this school than at others where students live
further away.


                      Table 6-1: Sunset Ridge Elementary Mode Split by Distance from School

                            Percent of                                      School                   City Bus/
Distance from School       Enrollment       Walks      Bikes    Driven       Bus       Carpools       Transit      Other

1/4 mile or less                   31%          13%        0%       63%           0%         25%            0%        0%

1/4 - 1/2 mile                      0%           0%        0%        0%           0%          0%            0%        0%

1/2 - 1 mile                       15%           0%        0%      100%           0%          0%            0%        0%

1 - 2 miles                         8%           0%        0%      100%           0%          0%            0%        0%

More than 2 miles                  46%           3%        0%       70%           0%         27%            0%        0%

Grand Total                      100%            6%       0%        74%          0%          21%            0%       0%

Source: Parent Survey Results


The steep topography near Sunset Ridge Elementary is a deterrent to bicycling, but programs such as
Walking School Buses could help parents coordinate to walk to school. Walking School Buses can address
two of the principal barriers to walking to school: stranger danger and a perception that there are no adults to
accompany their children. As many parents currently navigate significant traffic congestion at the school site
on a daily basis, it is likely that a few parents may be available to lead walking school buses.
Parents similarly noted that improving coordination with other parents and students would likely encourage
them to walk and bicycle for more trips.




5 This is based on the finding that people are generally willing to travel about 30 minutes each way, regardless of travel
mode. Assuming a student walking speed of 2.7 miles per hour and a bicycling speed of 8 mph, a child can travel 1.35
miles by foot or 4 miles via bicycle in 30 minutes. However, accounting for stop light interruptions, hilly terrain, and
other factors, the National Center recommends a student bicycling distance target of 2.6 miles.
http://www.saferoutesinfo.org/program-tools/what-distances-are-reasonable-expect-elementary-school-students-bike-
school


6-4 | Pacifica School District
                                                     Sunset Ridge Elementary




Figure 6-5: Sunset Ridge Elementary Enrollment Map




                                              Safe Routes to School Report | 6-5
Chapter 6


6.3.2. Engineering Improvements
Engineering recommendations are shown and mapped in Figure 6-6: Sunset Ridge Elementary Improvement
Plan. Improvement identification numbers reference numbers on the figure.

                                                            Main Passenger Loading Zone
                                                            The main passenger loading zone has issues with
                                                            double-parking, congestion, speeding, and unattended
                                                            vehicles. The Vice Principal regularly enforces rules
                                                            regarding unattended vehicles, and parents are
                                                            generally responsive, although one argument was
                                                            witnessed during the walk audit. Congestion is
                                                            worsened by the challenges at the intersection of
                                                            Horizon Way and Inverness Drive ­ motorists leaving
                                                            the parking lot encounter severe congestion at the
                                                            intersection.
   The Vice Principal directs traffic out of the school's
                   main parking lot.
                                                          There is a pedestrian walkway from the street through
                                                          the middle of the parking lot that crosses the loading
                                                          zone in front of the school entrance. The crosswalk has
fairly low visibility, exacerbated by large vehicles that park within the loading zone.
Traffic moves very quickly through the parking lot, especially when motorists stopped in congestion find an
opening and accelerate quickly to take advantage of it.
There are not enough ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act) accessible parking spaces for observed need.
There are three accessible parking stalls, however during the afternoon audit, all were filled, and one vehicle
with a placard parked within the access area between two handicap stalls and one blocking the parked cars.
Another vehicle with a placard was parked along the central loading area.
Recommendations (ID #1)
    ·    Paint the curbs of all legal loading zones white.
    ·    Cone off the staff parking area during arrival and dismissal times. Notify staff that if they arrive
         during those times, they will need to move the cones.
    ·    Increase the number of ADA-accessible parking spaces from three to six. This would ensure that
         parking stalls are available for the people that most need them.
    ·    Consider a circulation plan that disperses students to different locations on the school grounds.
         Fourth and fifth grade students could access the school site from the presently locked gate on
         Inverness Drive that leads to the building with their classrooms. Second and third grade students
         could use the pedestrian path that connects Hickey Boulevard to their classroom building and
         kindergarten and first graders could continue to use the main parking lot. Parents with students in
         multiple grades may park in the designated area for their youngest student.
    ·    The crosswalk connecting the pedestrian walkway through the parking lot to the school entrance
         should be restriped to meet California MUTDC (Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices)
         standards. The curb ramps on either end should have truncated domes.
    ·    Vegetation along the central crosswalk should be trimmed to increase visibility.
    ·    Install speed bumps in the travel lane.

6-6 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                      Sunset Ridge Elementary


Inverness Drive at Horizon Way Intersection
Access to the school is most challenging at the
intersection of Inverness Drive and Horizon Way. The
intersection is also the only entrance to the school
parking lot area. A sign prohibits left turns from the
parking lot onto Inverness Avenue during school hours.
The Vice Principal directs traffic nearly every day at this
intersection, waving motorists on to make right turns.
Many motorists also drive up Inverness Avenue to East
Foothill Drive and loop down along Horizon Way,
causing a high volume of right-turning movements from
Horizon Way onto Inverness Drive.
There are no curb ramps at the intersection of Horizon        There is significant pedestrian demand at this legal
Way and Inverness Drive. In addition to ADA access               unmarked crosswalk. Treatments to increase
issues, many parents walk with strollers to the school                visibility would improve its safety.
site. Accessibility issues are compounded by motorists
parking right along the curb on the corner. Motorists
were also observed parking in locations that blocked
residential driveways.
A sign prohibits pedestrian crossing on the north leg of the intersection. Crossing is not strictly prohibited on
the south leg of the intersection, which is a legal unmarked crosswalk, but students and parents are
discouraged from doing so and instead encouraged to walk down to Hickey Boulevard to use the crosswalk.
Nonetheless, demand for a crossing of Inverness Avenue at this location is very high. Diverting pedestrians to
Hickey Boulevard would involve a 400-foot detour with crossings of the school parking lot entrance,
Inverness Drive, and Horizon Way, which has a high volume of right-turning motorists who may be
preoccupied with finding gaps in traffic approaching from the left. One instance of a motorist cutting off a
child in the crosswalk of Horizon Way was witnessed during the audit.
Recommendations (ID #2)
    ·   Stripe a high-visibility yellow school zone crosswalk on the south leg of the intersection of Inverness
        Drive and Horizon Way. This is a legal crossing with high demand from students and parents. No
        formal crossing should be implemented without dedicated funds for and deployment of a crossing
        guard.
    ·   Hire a second crossing guard to protect this new high-visibility crossing. A well-trained crossing
        guard can help with efficiency for both pedestrians and motorists by platooning pedestrians.

Inverness Drive at Hickey Boulevard intersection
This extremely wide intersection is patrolled by a crossing guard. There are two wide travel lanes in each
direction on Hickey Boulevard, with a curb-to-curb width of 65 feet. As parking is prohibited adjacent to the
corner, this road effectively becomes three wide lanes northbound. The wide cross-section of this roadway
vastly increases the crossing distance for students walking to and from school.




                                                                               Safe Routes to School Report | 6-7
Chapter 6


Inefficient traffic flow results because the long crossing distances by students require that traffic be stopped
for long periods of time at each crossing. Motorists also appear to be confused about appropriate times to
drive through the intersection, the traditional all-way-stop rules being more difficult to follow due to high
pedestrian volumes. Sight lines are poor around the (south) corner adjacent to the school.
The intersection was recently upgraded, with accessible curb
ramps with truncated domes installed on the east and west
corners of the intersection, and yellow transverse crosswalks
upgraded to school zone high visibility crosswalks.
Recommendations (ID #3)
    ·    Install a curb extension on the south corner of the
         intersection. This improvement will increase the
         space available for students on the corner, increase
         visibility between students and motorists on the
         corner, and shorten crossing distances, and reducing
                                                                    A curb extension would create more room for
         pedestrian exposure.
                                                                         pedestrians and increase visibility.
    ·    Install advance stop bars at all approaches for
         improved pedestrian visibility.

Inverness Drive
Inverness Drive is the main road providing access to the school. It has two wide lanes and parking in each
direction, totaling 40 feet of pavement between the curbs, along with sidewalks that are in good condition.
There is a SamTrans bus route that makes frequent stops on the southwest side of the intersection of
Inverness Avenue and Horizon Way. The bus does not pull over to the side of the road during school hours
because of the amount of parked cars.
Outside the school arrival and departure times, audit participants noted that motorists drive very fast on
Inverness. This was also observed between the kindergarten dismissal and the dismissal for older students.
Parents indicated that crossing Inverness Drive was a barrier to walking to Sunset Ridge Elementary. Another
crossing opportunity further to the south on the street would allow children to cross the street without facing
the congestion at the parking lot entrance.
Recommendations (ID #4)
    ·    Install school area signage on Inverness Drive. Pair a school speed limit sign with a speed-feedback
         sign to increase driver awareness and calm traffic.
    ·    Install a school-zone high visibility yellow school zone crosswalk on the south leg of the intersection
         of Inverness Drive and East Foothill with curb ramps and Assembly B signage.
    ·    Consider other traffic calming treatments such as speed cushions.
    ·    Unlock southern gate to school grounds during school arrival and dismissal times

Hickey Boulevard and Path
Hickey Boulevard is a major collector street. It includes two travel lanes and parking in each direction, with
curb-to-curb width totaling 65 feet. There are sidewalks in good condition in both directions. Many students
and parents use Hickey Boulevard to walk to Sunset Ridge Elementary.


6-8 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                               Sunset Ridge Elementary


The intersection of Hickey Boulevard and Catalina Avenue
serves as an informal drop-off area on both sides of the
street. Many children use the pedestrian path that
connects from Hickey Boulevard to the school site. The
crossing is a legal but unmarked crosswalk, and many
parents and students use it to access the residential
neighborhoods to the north or parked vehicles.
The path is well used by students and parents, but the
grade change to the staff parking area is steep.                             Many students and parents meet at the
                                                                          intersection of Hickey Blvd and Catalina Ave
Recommendations (ID #5)
      ·   Install improvements at intersection with Inverness Drive as described above.
      ·   Consider installation of a high-visibility yellow school zone crosswalk at the intersection of Hickey
          Boulevard and Catalina Avenue. This would be an uncontrolled school zone crossing and should
          therefore be marked with Assembly B signage and preceded by "Slow School Crossing" stenciling and
          Assembly D signage. Rectangular rapid flashing beacons should also be considered.
      ·   Over the long term, consider curb extensions on Catalina Avenue, shortening crossing distances and
          increasing visibility for pedestrians.
      ·   Remove change of grade in pedestrian walkway as it crosses the driveway to the faculty parking lot.

Engineering Improvement Summary
Table 6-2 lists the recommended improvements to address circulation issues around Sunset Ridge
Elementary and Figure 6-6 presents an improvement plan of these recommendations. The project IDs in
Table 6-2 correspond to those in Figure 6-6. The table identifies the agency likely to lead the improvement,
the recommended priority level for implementation, and a planning level cost estimate. The priority level is
based on the anticipated safety and circulation benefit, feasibility of implementation, and the projected cost.


                           Table 6-2: Sunset Ridge Elementary Recommended Improvements

 ID       Location          Recommendations                                         Lead          Priority   Cost
                                                                                    Agency        Level

 1        School Parking      · Paint the curbs of all legal loading zones with     District          High      $1,000
                                white
          Lot
                              · Cone off the staff parking area during arrival
                                and dismissal times
                              · Increase parking spaces reserved for holders of
                                ADA Placards from three to six
                              · Install speed bumps in the parking lot travel
                                path
                              · Widen and clearly delineate the crosswalk
                                connecting the pedestrian walkway through
                                the parking lot with the school entrance
                              · Trim vegetation to increase visibility




                                                                                      Safe Routes to School Report | 6-9
Chapter 6


 ID     Location           Recommendations                                             Lead       Priority   Cost
                                                                                       Agency     Level

 2      Inverness            · Hire a second crossing guard                            City           High   $17,500 +
                             · If a second crossing guard is available, stripe a                              Crossing
        Drive at
                               high-visibility yellow school zone crosswalk                                     Guard
        Horizon Way            with school signage and stenciling on the south
                               leg of the intersection
                             · Strip high visibility yellow school zone
                               crosswalk across Horizon Way
                             · Install curb ramps at all crosswalks


 3      Inverness            · Stripe yellow high-visibility school zone               City         Middle    $31,900
                               crosswalks at all approaches
        Drive and
                             · Install a curb extension on the south corner of
        Hickey                 the intersection
        Boulevard            · Install advance stop bars at all approaches


 4      Inverness            · Install school area signage on Inverness Drive;         School /   Medium        $2,100
                               pair a school speed limit sign with a speed-
        Drive
                               feedback sign to increase driver awareness and
                               calm traffic                                            City /
                             · Install a high-visibility yellow school zone
                               crosswalk on the south leg of the intersection of       Caltrans
                               Inverness Drive and East Foothill; include curb
                               ramps and Assembly B and D signage
                             · Consider other traffic calming treatments such
                               as speed cushions
                             · Unlock existing southern gate to school
                               grounds during school arrival and dismissal


 5      Hickey               · Over the long term, consider curb extensions            City           Low     $62,100
                               on Catalina Avenue to shorten crossing
        Boulevard and
                               distances and increase visibility for pedestrians
        Catalina             · Consider striping a high-visibility yellow school
        Avenue                 zone crosswalk at the intersection of Hickey
                               Boulevard and Catalina Avenue; Mark crossing
                               with Assembly B and Assembly D signage and
                               stenciling as well as rectangular rapid flashing
                               beacons


 6      Faculty              · Remove change of grade in pedestrian walkway            School         Low           $500
                                  as it crosses the driveway that enters the faculty
        Parking Lot
                                  parking lot


 Total Cost                                                                                                  $115,100




6-10 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                   Sunset Ridge Elementary


6.3.3. Recommended Education, Encouragement and Ridesharing Programs

Programmatic Recommendations
In the parent survey, many parents expressed interest in the implementation of education and encouragement
programs at the school. Parents who attended the school meeting were generally interested in suggestions
such as walking school buses, friendly walking competitions, and school pools.
The school and District should focus efforts on encouraging walking among students who live within a half-
mile of school and facilitate coordination between parents living further from the school to enable carpooling.
Key programmatic recommendations are listed below. These programs and others are described in more detail
in Section 8.2.
    ·   A School Safety Campaign implemented through a variety of media outlets can reduce the frequency
        of illegal and unsafe driving behavior. Such a campaign would help to address parental concerns
        about traffic and intersection crossings as well as unsafe motorist behavior, and would improve safety
        for students walking and bicycling to school.
    ·   A circulation map would help to alleviate traffic congestion at Sunset Ridge Elementary, symbolized
        by blue dashed lines in Figure 6-6. These circulation maps could be distributed via school
        newsletters and websites.
    ·   Walking school buses can encourage families to walk to school together or can enable busy families
        to coordinate with other parents who already walk their children to school. A walking school bus
        should have a regular route and a parent contact to oversee the program. Several possible routes exist
        in the area south of Sunset Ridge Elementary.
    ·   Carpooling can be encouraged with the use of the 511 SchoolPool Tool, a ride matching service that
        locates families with similar commutes and facilitates coordination so they can commute to school
        together. Sunset Ridge Elementary has a high density of families who live too far to walk, and with
        steep terrain that discourages bicycling, but who could carpool together to and from school.
    ·   Bicycle rodeos would improve student bicycling skills and would likely increase parents' confidence
        and willingness to allow their children to bike to and from school.
    ·   Crossing guards have proven to be essential for pedestrian safety and orderly traffic operations and
        extremely popular among parents. An additional crossing guard may be beneficial for Sunset Ridge
        Elementary at Inverness Drive and Horizon Way.
    ·   Due to the small number of surveys received from Sunset Ridge Elementary (14 total), a strategy for
        encouraging a higher response rate is recommended for future surveying.




                                                                            Safe Routes to School Report | 6-11
Chapter 6


This page intentionally left blank.




6-12 | Pacifica School District
                                                              Sunset Ridge Elementary




Figure 6-6: Sunset Ridge Elementary Improvement Plan


                                                       Safe Routes to School Report | 6-13
Chapter 6


This page intentionally left blank.




6-14 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                        Vallemar Elementary




7. Vallemar Elementary
   Recommendations
7.1. School Information
Principal:         Barbara Ng
Enrollment:        560
Arrival:           Kindergarten ­ 3rd Grade - 8:30 AM
                   Grades 4th ­ 8th - 8:19 AM
Dismissal:         All Grades - 2:41 PM

                                                                          Vallemar Elementary
7.1.1. Layout
Vallemar Elementary School is located on Reina del Mar Avenue, approximately two blocks east of Highway 1.
It is nestled in a residential neighborhood located within a valley accessible via Reina del Mar Avenue. There
is a loading zone in front of the main building. Staff parking is located in the center of the loop and a small
visitor parking area (Kinder lot) is adjacent to the lower level classroom buildings. Adjacent to Vallemar
Elementary is the Pacifica School District offices. Students access the school from:
    ·      The main school entrance from the passenger loading zone.
    ·      A gate from the school district parking lot.

A significant challenge for walking and bicycling to Vallemar Elementary School is that it is not a
neighborhood school and students enroll from all over Pacifica. Only a small percentage of students live in the
surrounding neighborhood, and Pacifica's neighborhoods are isolated from one another by steep hills and
Highway 1.

7.1.2. Site Visit
The project team conducted a walk audit at Vallemar Elementary School on February 28, 2012 during
afternoon pick-up. The weather was cool and windy, but sunny. Many parents arrived well in advance of the
school bell and waited for their children in the Vallemar loading zone and in the Kinder parking lot. Parents
also waited in the through travel areas of the Pacifica School District offices lot.
Before the walking audit, six parents attended a meeting to discuss their experience accessing the school and
suggestions for improvement.

7.1.3. Loading Zones
The school has one official loading zone on the main loop in front of the school; however circulation through
the parking and loading zone at Vallemar Elementary is complex. Drivers can enter the circulation system
from two points, at the entrance to the main loading zone and the entrance to the school district parking lot.
The main loading zone discharges back onto Reina del Mar Avenue, but motorists entering the school district
office parking lot may choose to continue forward towards the school side gate or turn right into a small
parking area known as the Kinder parking lot which exits with the main loading zone. If continuing forward


                                                                             Safe Routes to School Report | 7-1
Chapter 7



in the school district parking lot, cars return to Reina
del Mar Avenue on a driveway shared with the Police
Department but separated with bollards.
In addition to the formal loading zone and parking
areas, many parents park at nearby locations on Reina
del Mar Avenue or on connecting streets such as
Reichling Avenue and Hillside Drive.

7.1.4. Crossing Guard Location
One crossing guard protects the crosswalk across
Reina del Mar Avenue on the west side of Reichling
Avenue. She is experienced and parents expressed                A vehicle is triple-parked in the School District Parking
appreciation for her efforts. The crossing guard is                                         Lot
outfitted with an appropriate vest and a hand-held
stop sign with flashing lights.

7.2. Travel Survey Results
7.2.1. Student Hand Tally Results
Student hand tallies at Vallemar Elementary were conducted in 20 classrooms, capturing 3,057 trips. As
shown in Figure 7-1, most students are driven solo, though many students do walk to school or carpool.



  80%                                             75%

  70%                                                 66%

  60%

  50%

  40%                                                                                                              AM
                                                                                                                   PM
  30%

  20%
           13%13%                                                       13%
                                                                   8%
  10%                                                                                  6%
                           1% 1%                                                  2%
                                     0% 0%                                                       1% 0%
   0%
             Walk           Bike    School Bus Family Vehicle      Carpool         Transit        Other

                                   Figure 7-1: Student Hand Tally Mode Split




7-2 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                       Vallemar Elementary


7.2.2. Parent Survey Results
                                                                                        City
The parent survey collected data from 25 students via 24
                                                                                        Bus/
surveys. This small amount of data skews the results and                              Transit,
should be considered when comparing the baseline data to                       Carpool, 13%
future surveys.                                                                  6%                     Walk,
                                                                                                        18%
As shown in Figure 7-2, Vallemar Elementary has the                                                                  Bike, 5%
highest active transportation mode split in the school
district, with 18 percent of students walking to school and
5 percent biking. An additional 13 percent of students take                                   Driven
transit. These figures are especially impressive considering                                   Solo,
                                                                                               59%
that 71 percent of students live more than a mile from
school.
As shown in Figure 7-3, commuting choices are quite
different depending on how distant families live from the                         Figure 7-2: Parent Survey Mode Split
school site. This reflects the steep topography and limited
road connections within the surrounding area. Every
student living within a quarter mile reported walking to
school, and the active transportation mode split between a
quarter mile and one mile is nearly 80 percent.



           100%
                                                              20%
                                               28%
                   80%
                                                                                                          Other
 Percent of Mode




                                                                                                          City Bus/ Transit
                   60%
                                                                                                          Carpools
                                                                                                87%       School Bus
                   40%
                                                                                                          Driven
                                                                              60%
                                                                                                          Bikes
                   20%
                                                                                                          Walks

                   0%
                         1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile   1/2 - 1 mile    1 - 2 miles    More than 2
                                                      Distance from School                  miles

                                              Figure 7-3: Trip Mode by Distance From School

Seventy-one percent of students live more than a mile from school, where the overwhelming majority of
students are individually driven to school.




                                                                                          Safe Routes to School Report | 7-3
Chapter 7



The largest barriers to walking and bicycling that parents identified related to transportation infrastructure,
including unsafe intersections, a lack of bikeways, sidewalks and bike paths, and high traffic volumes and
speeds. The most frequent barriers to walking and bicycling include the following:
    ·    Unsafe intersections (10 percent)
    ·    Lack of bikeways (9 percent)
    ·    Lack of sidewalks and/or paths (9 percent)
    ·    Stranger danger (8 percent)
    ·    Too much traffic along the route (8 percent)
    ·    Speeding traffic along route (8 percent)

When asked about the most compelling reason why they might reduce their driving to school, parents
commonly cited easier coordination with other parents and students, more convenient transit options, or a
child's desire to walk and bike to improve their health. These results are shown in Figure 7-4.



  25%
                                                                                                   22%

  20%                            19%                                              19%


               15%                               15%
  15%

                                                                 11%
  10%



   5%



   0%
          My child wanted My child wanted My child wanted My child knew    Transit/school     It was easier to
         to make "greener" to walk/bike to to compete for how to walk and   buses better     coordinate with
              choices       improve their prizes in contests bike safely  served my child's other parents/kids
                               health                                          school

                     Figure 7-4: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School




7-4 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                 Vallemar Elementary


7.3. Issues and Recommendations
7.3.1. Feasibility of Walking, Biking, and Ridesharing to School
The National Center for Safe Routes to School recommends distance targets that the majority of students who
live within 1.35 miles can walk to and from school, while the majority of students within 2.6 miles can
bicycle. 6 As shown in Figure 7-5: Vallemar Elementary Enrollment Map and Table 7-1, a small cluster of
school families live within a half-mile of the school, and the majority of families live a mile or more away from
school.
                        Table 7-1: Vallemar Elementary Mode Split by Distance from School

                           Percent of                                       School                   City Bus/
Distance from School       Enrollment       Walks      Bikes     Driven      Bus       Carpools       Transit     Other

1/4 mile or less                    4%        100%         0%         0%          0%          0%            0%        0%

1/4 - 1/2 mile                     17%          45%      28%        28%           0%          0%            0%        0%

1/2 - 1 mile                        8%          80%        0%       20%           0%          0%            0%        0%

1 - 2 miles                        33%           0%        0%       60%           0%          3%           38%        0%

More than 2 miles                  38%           0%        0%       87%           0%         13%            0%        0%

Grand Total                      100%          18%        5%        59%          0%           6%          13%        0%

Source: Parent Survey Results


Most of the parents who live within a half-mile of school report that their children walk to school and some
ride bicycles. A relatively high proportion of students who live more than one more from school use the city
bus, while several students who live further than two miles from school carpool. The school and district can
shift trips from driving alone by promoting walking and bicycling among students who live within a mile of
school, and carpooling and transit use for families who live further away.




6 This is based on the finding that people are generally willing to travel about 30 minutes each way, regardless of travel
mode. Assuming a student walking speed of 2.7 miles per hour and a bicycling speed of 8 mph, a child can travel 1.35
miles by foot or 4 miles via bicycle in 30 minutes. However, accounting for stop light interruptions, hilly terrain, and
other factors, the National Center recommends a student bicycling distance target of 2.6 miles.
http://www.saferoutesinfo.org/program-tools/what-distances-are-reasonable-expect-elementary-school-students-bike-
school


                                                                                     Safe Routes to School Report | 7-5
Chapter 7




                                 Figure 7-5: Vallemar Elementary Enrollment Map




7-6 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                          Vallemar Elementary


7.3.2. Engineering Improvements
Engineering recommendations are shown and mapped in Figure 7-6: Vallemar Elementary Improvement Plan.
Improvement identification numbers reference numbers on the figure.

School District Parking Lot and Kinder Lot
Vallemar Elementary is adjacent to the Pacifica School District office. The District parking lot is the only
entrance to the Kinder lot. The School district parking lot is a one-way loop counter-clockwise around the
building. Both lots were used by many parents on the audit day.
The District parking lot was full during the walk audit. Many parents double-parked to pick up their
children, often well in advance of the school bell. A few instances of triple-parking were observed. There was
an altercation between two parents during the site visit. Exiting the school district parking lot requires
motorists to turn right across another driveway, separated lane of traffic serving the Pacifica Police
Department headquarters.
To use the Kinder lot parents must enter the District lot. This puts most vehicle activity through the school
crosswalk, the main pedestrian path of travel.
Recommendations (ID #1)
    ·   Reconfigure the circulation through the parking and loading areas. The new circulation plan will
        reverse the direction of traffic through the Kinder lot and the District office parking lot, and require
        orienting angled parking spaces in the opposite direction for these areas. This will simplify the
        circulation patterns within the school site and reduce the number of vehicles crossing the highly used
        crosswalk in front of the school. To reduce truck traffic near the school, coordinate with the police
        department to allow trucks, but not passenger vehicles, to exit via the Police driveway.
    ·   Restripe all parking accordingly.

                                           Main Passenger Loading Zone
                                           Enforcement of existing regulations is an issue in the main zone.
                                           While student pick-up areas should have white striping to indicate
                                           loading zones, they are currently striped red, which indicates no
                                           parking or stopping. Motorists park in these areas and as a result
                                           circulation becomes congested. Vegetation is overgrown in some
                                           locations adjacent to the loading zone, decreasing visibility.
                                           Recommendations (ID #2)
                                               ·      Paint the curbs of all legal loading zones white.
                                               ·      Enlist a staff person to monitor the passenger drop-off in
                                                      the morning. This could be a rotating cadre of adult
  This curb should be painted white and
   the driver should not be permitted to              volunteers, or school staff if available. This person should
       leave the vehicle unattended.                  be outfitted with a yellow vest.
                                               ·      Trim vegetation on the west side of the loading zone to
                                                      increase visibility.
                                               ·      Reconfigure the circulation through the parking and
                                                      loading areas as described above.



                                                                               Safe Routes to School Report | 7-7
Chapter 7



Bicycle Parking
Existing bicycle parking is located off the main loop behind a green storage container on the eastern side of
the campus. The existing rack does not meet current security and stability standards, is rusted, and on a dirt
slope that gets muddy in the winter.
Recommendations (ID #3)
    ·    Replace existing substandard bicycle parking on eastern side of the campus with bicycle parking that
         meets current standards. Bicycle racks should be installed on a level concrete pad.
    ·    Install new bicycle parking on western side of campus near the Kinder Lot. Bicycle racks should be
         installed on a level concrete pad.

Reina del Mar Avenue
Reina del Mar Avenue is the only street providing access to the school and surrounding neighborhood from
other parts of Pacifica. It is a two-lane road at most times of the day, but during school arrival times, parking is
prohibited on the north side of the street to allow for a second travel lane. The crossing guard is stationed at
the intersection of Reina del Mar and Reichling Avenue. Parents noted that speeding is an issue in both
directions. There is only one school area sign posted westbound, adjacent to the crosswalk. School signs face
eastbound traffic at the intersections with Hillside Drive and the district parking lot.
Participants and the school crossing guard noted that some motorists run the stop sign at the end of Reichling
Avenue. There is an in-pavement school crosswalk sign at this intersection, but it has been worn down over
time.
Crosswalks at side streets from Reina del Mar Avenue are not marked.
There are sidewalks on both sides of the street from the school property to the west, and both are well-used
by students. The southern sidewalk has one location with a thick, low-hanging tree branch that may present a
hazard, especially to children biking on the sidewalk. Sidewalks are intermittent east of the school site,
ultimately disappearing further up the hill.
Because circulation within the school loading zones can be challenging, many parents were observed
conducting illegal U-turns on Reina del Mar Avenue east of the school, a maneuver whose danger is
compounded by missing sidewalks.
Recommendations East (ID #4)
    ·    Consider placement of speed table to slow traffic
         near school.
    ·    Install sidewalks in the public right of way from
         school up to Winona Avenue.
    ·    Install Assembly D Signage to indicate school
         crossing.

Recommendations West (ID #5)
    ·    Install crosswalk across Reichling Avenue at Reina
                                                                         A parent crossing Reina del Mar Avenue
         del Mar.
                                                                                  without a crosswalk.
    ·    Update curb ramps with yellow truncated domes at


7-8 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                         Vallemar Elementary


        all intersections where missing.
    ·   Trim vegetation along sidewalks.
    ·   Install Rectangular Rapid Flash Beacon and SSX stencils at existing high-visibility crosswalk
    ·   Install school zone signage in both directions well in advance of the crosswalk.
    ·   Consider a school-zone high visibility crosswalk with Rectangular Rapid Flash Beacon at the
        intersection of Lauren Avenue and Reina del Mar Avenue. Install Assembly B and Assembly D
        signage.

Cabrillo Highway Intersection
                                                California State Highway 1, also known as the Cabrillo
                                                Highway, runs up the spine of the City of Pacifica. It is a busy
                                                multi-lane highway that intersects Reina del mar Avenue at a
                                                traffic signal two short blocks west of the school site. In
                                                addition, there is a small parking area on the west side of the
                                                highway, with enough spaces for eight vehicles.
                                                A SamTrans bus route drops passengers off on the west side
                                                of the highway in the morning and on the east side of the
                                                highway in the afternoon. Some students use this bus route,
                                                but the stop occurs well in advance of the school bell, so they
  Crossing the Cabrillo Highway can present a
                                                are not immediately allowed on campus. The pedestrian walk
     challenge for students arriving by bus.
                                                signal across Cabrillo Highway is short and students must
                                                start immediately and walk quickly to cross the intersection.
                                                The crosswalks are faded and difficult to see.
The short traffic signal for Reina del Mar Avenue can compound the school area congestion. Audit
participants noted there is a long wait time and short proceed time to leave Reina del Mar Avenue. Some
motorists, especially the Pacifica Police, choose to make U-turns when heading southbound despite the
present but faded No U-Turn sign. Some parents expressed concerns about the leg of the intersection that
crosses Reina del Mar Avenue as well, owing to the wide turning radius and lengthy crossing distance.
There is a small parking lot that serves local businesses such as the Vallemar Bar and Grill and P-town coffee.
Some parents discussed the possibility of using this area as an additional parking location. Adjacent to the bus
stop, it might also provide a starting point for a walking school bus.
Recommendations (ID #6)
    ·   Adjust cycle length to allow for walking speed of 2.8 feet per second when crossing Highway 1.
    ·   Enforce no U-turns from southbound to northbound for all vehicles except police. This would help to
        make the intersection more predictable for motorists wishing to turn right from Reina del Mar
        Avenue to Cabrillo Highway and lessen congestion that backs up into the school area.
    ·   Work with Caltrans to consider changing the signal from being timed to detection at the intersection
        so that Reina del Mar Avenue gets a longer green signal when there is significant congestion.
    ·   Stripe high-visibility yellow school zone crosswalks with curb ramps and truncated domes across the
        south and east legs of the intersection.
    ·   Establish a walking school bus that departs from the adjacent parking lot.



                                                                              Safe Routes to School Report | 7-9
Chapter 7



Engineering Improvement Summary
Table 7-2 lists the recommended improvements to address circulation issues around Vallemar Elementary and
Figure 7-6 presents an improvement plan of these recommendations. The project IDs in Table 7-2
correspond to those in Figure 7-6. The table identifies the agency likely to lead the improvement, the
recommended priority level for implementation, and a planning level cost estimate. The priority level is based
on the anticipated safety and circulation benefit, the feasibility of implementation, and the projected cost.


                           Table 7-2: Vallemar Elementary Recommended Improvements

ID    Location           Recommendations                                               Lead       Priority      Cost
                                                                                       Agency       Level

1     School District       · Reconfigure circulation through the parking areas District            High     $15,000
      Parking Lot and       · Reorient angled parking to accommodate new travel
                                  direction
      Kinder Lot
                            · Coordinate with Police Department to allow trucks,
                                  but not passenger vehicles, to exit via the Police
                                  Department driveway on the west.


2     Main Passenger        · Paint the curbs of all legal loading zones white         District     High      $1,000
      Loading Zone          · Enlist a staff person to monitor the passenger drop-
                              off in the morning; This could be a rotating cadre of
                              adult volunteers, or school staff if available; This
                              person should be outfitted with a yellow vest
                            · Trim vegetation on the west side of the loading zone
                              to increase visibility


3     Bicycle Parking       · Replace existing substandard bicycle parking on          District      Low      $6,000
                              eastern side of the campus with bicycle parking that
                              meets current standards; Bicycle racks should be
                              installed on a level concrete pad
                            · Install new bicycle parking on western side of
                              campus near the Kinder Lot; Bicycle racks should be
                              installed on a level concrete pad


4     Reina del Mar         · Consider placement of speed table to slow traffic        City       Medium     $19,000
                              near school
      Avenue (East)
                            · Install sidewalks in the public right of way from
                              school up to Winona Avenue
                            · Install Assembly D Signage to indicate school
                              crossing




7-10 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                             Vallemar Elementary


ID   Location        Recommendations                                                Lead        Priority       Cost
                                                                                    Agency        Level

5    Reina del Mar     · Install crosswalk across Reichling Avenue at Reina         City       Medium      $47,000
                           del Mar
     Avenue (West)
                       ·   Update curb ramps with yellow truncated domes at
                           all intersections where missing
                       ·   Trim vegetation along sidewalks
                       ·   Install Rectangular Rapid Flash Beacon and SSX
                           stencils at existing high-visibility crosswalk
                       ·   Install school zone signage in both directions well in
                           advance of the crosswalk
                       ·   Consider a school-zone high visibility crosswalk with
                           Rectangular Rapid Flash Beacon at the intersection
                           of Lauren Avenue and Reina del Mar Avenue; Install
                           Assembly B and Assembly D signage


6    Cabrillo          · Adjust cycle length to allow for walking speed of 2.8   City /        Medium        $6,700
                           feet per second when crossing Highway 1
     Highway
                       ·   Enforce no U-turns from southbound to northbound                                 Cost for
     Intersection          for all vehicles except police; This would help to    Caltrans                     signal
                           make the intersection more predictable for motorists                            detection
                           wishing to turn right from Reina del Mar Avenue to                                   TBD
                           Cabrillo Highway and lessen congestion that backs
                           up into the school area
                       ·   Work with Caltrans to consider changing the signal
                           from being timed to detection at the intersection so
                           that Reina del Mar Avenue gets a longer green signal
                           when there is significant congestion
                       ·   Stripe high-visibility crosswalks with curb ramps and
                           truncated domes across the south and east legs of
                           the intersection
                       ·   Establish a walking school bus that departs from the
                           adjacent parking lot


                                                                      Total Cost                           $94,700




                                                                                Safe Routes to School Report | 7-11
Chapter 7



7.3.3. Recommended Education, Encouragement and Ridesharing Programs
The most common parent-identified barriers to walking and bicycling to Vallemar Elementary involved traffic
safety and a lack of bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure. In addition to encouraging more students to walk
and bicycle, transportation improvements would increase conditions and safety for students already walking
and bicycling.
Due to the high active transportation mode split from nearby families, the survey suggests that most of the
potential decrease in driving to school would come from students living over a mile away from the school site.
Key programmatic recommendations are listed below. These programs and others are described in more detail
in Section 8.2.
    ·    A School Safety Campaign implemented through a variety of media outlets can reduce the frequency
         of illegal and unsafe driving behavior. Such a campaign would help to address parental concerns
         about traffic and intersection crossings as well as unsafe motorist behavior, and would improve safety
         for students walking and bicycling to school.
    ·    A circulation map would help to alleviate traffic congestion at Vallemar Elementary, symbolized by
         blue dashed lines in Figure 7-6. These circulation maps could be distributed via school newsletters
         and websites.
    ·    Walking school buses can encourage families to walk to school together or can enable busy families
         to coordinate with other parents who already walk their children to school. A walking school bus
         should have a regular route and a parent contact to oversee the program.
    ·    Carpooling can be encouraged with the use of the 511 SchoolPool Tool, a ride matching service that
         locates families with similar commutes and facilitates coordination so they can commute to school
         together. The enrollment map shows that many students are clustered and therefore have
         opportunities to carpool together, though that is not yet a common transportation choice for
         Vallemar Elementary.
    ·    Establishing a park-and-walk would enable parents to drop their children off and either walk the
         last leg of the journey into school or link them with other parents who can complete the journey to
         school with their children. Such a program can disperse congestion through a larger area around the
         school site and demonstrate solidarity with their peers who walk and bike to school.
    ·    Bike rodeos were a consensus recommendation at the parent meeting to teach children to operate
         bicycles safely and confidently. Bicycle rodeos would improve student bicycling skills and would
         likely increase parents' confidence and willingness to allow their children to bike to and from school.




7-12 | Pacifica School District
                                                         District-Wide Action Plan




Figure 7-6: Vallemar Elementary Improvement Plan


                                                   Safe Routes to School Report | 7-13
Chapter 7



This page intentionally left blank.




7-14 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                     District-Wide Action Plan




8. Pacifica District-Wide Overview and
Recommendations
This chapter presents common issues reported and observed at
the six schools studied as part of this report. Recommendations
addressing these issues are programmatic and may require
coordination between the District, the City of Pacifica, and the
police department. Crossing guards are one example of a
program funded from a variety of sources, with some crossing
guards funded through Parent-Teacher Organizations and
others through the school district.
The continuation of the crossing guard program, along with
other programmatic recommendations, will help to create a              Meetings with parents, school principals
unified sense of safety and order during school commute times.         and staff guide the development of these
The continuation of other existing programs or the                                recommendations.
implementation of new programs may require support from
multiple partner organizations and funding sources. The Safe
Routes to School Action Plan, described in Chapter 9 will help
to coordinate efforts to foster active lifestyles and reduce traffic
congestion in the community.

8.1. District-Wide Issues
Issues common to most schools in Pacifica include:
    ·    Citywide enrollment, which disperses students throughout the city and increases travel distance
    ·    Poor traffic circulation around schools
    ·    High traffic volumes and unsafe motorist behavior around schools
    ·    Hilly topography that presents barriers to walking and bicycling
    ·    Inconvenient crossing opportunities for pedestrians
    ·    Parental concerns about traffic safety and their children's lack of walking and bicycling education

8.1.1. Travel Survey Results
Evaluating Safe Routes to School (SR2S) programs helps implementers identify the existing conditions at
schools and understand parental attitudes about what improvements, programs, or policies are likely to have
the most impact on school commute modes. This data establishes the baseline conditions, for comparison
with data in future years that will indicate the success of programmatic and infrastructure improvements.
Tallies of how students traveled to and from school establish the initial mode split of students at different
schools for comparison with future data. Parent surveys indicate major barriers parents perceive that keep
them from allowing their children to walk, bicycle, carpool, or take transit to and from school. These data can
identify priorities appropriate for a particular context. For example, a school where few students live within a
half-mile would be a good location to promote carpooling and park-and-walks, while if many students live



                                                                               Safe Routes to School Report | 8-1
Chapter 8



within a half-mile of the school, education, encouragement, and infrastructure improvements can increase the
number of students walking and bicycling. Collecting and analyzing school commute data is also an excellent
way to support grant applications and other funding applications, and to track effectiveness of different
programs and policies.
The San Mateo Safe Routes to School program surveyed students and parents in the Pacifica School District to
determine the baseline mode split and to identify key opportunities to promote walking, bicycling, carpooling,
and transit use at each of the six schools in the district. Parent surveys also ask about the factors influence
their school commute mode choice and if they are interested in participating in SR2S programs.

Student Hand Tally Results                                                              Other Walk
                                                                              Transit                     Bike
                                                                                         1%   11%
Student Hand Tallies ask students to raise their hands in                       5%                        1%
response to the commute mode they use to get to and                                                              School
                                                                                                                  Bus
from school. The tally captured 14,430 individual student                     Carpool
                                                                                                                   0%
trips at the 6 schools surveyed.                                               12%

Overall, 70 percent of students surveyed ride in a family
vehicle to get to and from school, shown in Figure 8-1. A
sizeable number of students also carpool (12 percent),
                                                                                           Family
while 12 percent also travel via active transportation
                                                                                           Vehicle
(walking and bicycling).                                                                    70%
Between 9 and 16 percent of students in each grade use
active transportation, with the exception of the
kindergarteners, who have an 8 percent walking or biking Figure 8-1: Student Hand Tally District-Wide Mode
mode split.                                                                    Split

Slightly more students tend to be driven in a family vehicle to get to school than to leave (72 percent compared
to 67 percent). Similarly, rates of walking, carpooling, and transit use are slightly higher in the afternoon.

  100%


   80%
                                                                                                Other
                                                                                                Bike
   60%
                                                                                                Walk
                                                                                                School Bus
   40%                                                             77%
                                         73%          74%                         71%           Transit
              67%
                            53%                                                                 Carpool
   20%                                                                                          Family Vehicle


    0%
             Cabrillo   Ingrid B Lacy Ocean Shores   Ortega    Sunset Ridge     Vallemar

                                  Figure 8-2: Parent Survey District-Wide Mode Split


8-2 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                            District-Wide Action Plan


Table 8-1 and Figure 8-2 show the results by school. Sunset Ridge has the highest walking share (16 percent),
followed by Vallemar (13 percent). Ingrid B. Lacy has the lowest walking share (6 percent). Ingrid B. Lacy,
Ortega, and Vallemar all have less than 1 percent bicycling, while Ocean Shores had the most (2 percent).
Ingrid B. Lacy had substantially higher rates of transit use than the other schools, likely due to an older
student population.
                                         Table 8-1: Hand Tally Results by School

                             Walk        Bike        School           Family        Carpool         Transit      Other
                                                      Bus             Vehicle

School          Total    N     %     N      %    N       %       N           %     N        %      N     %      N    %

Cabrillo         3,000   236    8%   64 2%        18        1%       2,007   67%   475      16%    117    4%    17   1%

Ingrid B Lacy    2,103   136    6%       7 0%        0      0%       1,120   53%   346      16%    415   20%    29   1%

Ocean Shores     1,539   164 11%     29 2%        24        2%       1,118   73%   183      12%     16    1%    15   1%

Ortega           2,163   234 11%         6 0%     30        1%       1,606   74%   213      10%     54    2%     9   0%

Sunset Ridge     2,680   431 16%     11 0%           0      0%       2,054   77%   151       6%     13    0%     1   0%

Vallemar         3,057   399 13%     29 1%           5      0%       2,168   71%   330      11%    136    4%    14   0%

Total           14,542 1600     8% 146 2%         77        1%   10,073      67%   1698     16%    751    4%    85   1%



Parent Survey Results
The parent survey was distributed via an online SurveyMonkey format and available to parents in paper form
at each school. Surveys were offered in English and Spanish. Each family was asked to complete a single
survey. If multiple children from a single family attend school in San Mateo County, the parents were asked a
series of questions for each child individually, as well as a series of questions. In total, 185 surveys were
completed, with responses for 296 individual students.
Parents were asked to report what mode they use to get to and from school depending on the day of the week.
This question format captured families that use multiple modes. Figure 8-3 shows the overall results of the
survey. The parent survey results are similar to those for the student tally, but differed due to the way the
question was asked and the differing survey methodology. The parent survey found that 68 percent of
students are driven alone, 15 percent carpool, and 7 percent take the city bus, while 8 percent walk and 1
percent bicycle.




                                                                                       Safe Routes to School Report | 8-3
Chapter 8



                    2,500

                                                                                                                  Monday
                    2,000
                                                                                                                  Tuesday
                                                                                                                  Wednesday
  Number of Trips




                    1,500
                                                                                                                  Thursday
                                                                                                                  Friday
                    1,000


                     500


                          0
                                    Walk           Bike         Driven Solo     School Bus      Carpool       City Bus/           Other
                                                                                  Mode                         Transit

                                                          Figure 8-3: Trip Mode by Day of Week



Parents were also asked how far from school they live, to identify appropriate strategies to promote
alternatives to driving solo to and from school. Overall, 34 percent of students live more than 2 miles from
their schools. Only 20 percent live within a half-mile, indicating that carpooling and park-and-walk
encouragement may be preferred.
This information can be cross-referenced with the reported mode split, to find that 22 percent of students
who live within a quarter-mile of school, as shown in Figure 8-4. As can be expected, rates of driving increase
as students live further from school, and walking rates reduce.



           100%


                    80%
                                                                                                                          Other
                                                                                                                          City Bus/ Transit
 Percent of Mode




                    60%            72%             70%
                                                                    74%                                                   Carpools
                    40%                                                                                                   School Bus
                                                                                     63%            66%
                                                                                                                          Driven
                    20%
                                                                                                                          Bikes
                                                                                                                          Walks
                    0%
                              1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile    1/2 - 1 mile     1 - 2 miles   More than 2
                                                                                                  miles
                                                          Distance from School

                                                     Figure 8-4: Trip Mode by Distance from School



8-4 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                               District-Wide Action Plan


Parents were asked questions about their perceptions of walking and bicycling. In general, parents agreed that
walking and bicycling is fun for their children, important for their children's health, and something they wish
they did more often. Most parents did not feel that their children's school encouraged walking and bicycling.



                                                                   Walking and bicycling is...
                       160

                       140

                       120                                                                                              Strongly Disagree
 Number of Responses




                       100                                                                                              Somewhat
                                                                                                                        Disagree
                       80                                                                                               Neutral/ No
                                                                                                                        Opinion
                       60
                                                                                                                        Somewhat Agree
                       40
                                                                                                                        Strongly Agree
                       20

                        0
                                 ...fun for my         ...important for my ...encouraged by my ...something I wish
                                    child(ren)         child(ren)'s health    child(ren)'s school we did more often


                                                 Figure 8-5: Parents' Perceptions of Walking and Bicycling

As shown in Figure 8-6, most families who have participated in Safe Routes activities have been involved
with Walk and Roll to School Days. While only 3 percent of families participated in Traffic Safety Assemblies,
half of those respondents felt that the assemblies had resulted in their children walking, biking, or carpooling
more often for school trips.



 20%
                                                                  19%


 15%



 10%



         5%                                                                                                      4%
                                                  3%                              3%
                                                                                                                               2%
                                 1%
                                                                                                  1%
         0%
                             Safe Routes     Traffic Safety    Walk and Roll Bicycle Rodeos 511 SchoolPool Walking School     Other
                              Classroom       Assemblies      to School Days                                    Bus/
                               Lessons                                                                       Bike Train

                                           Figure 8-6: Participation in Safe Routes to School Events and Programs


                                                                                                         Safe Routes to School Report | 8-5
Chapter 8



Most parents reported being willing to allow their children to walk or bike to/from school without an adult
beginning in 6th Grade (31 percent). As shown in Figure 8-7, parent's primary concerns include traffic safety
issues, including unsafe intersections, speeding traffic along the route, and too much traffic along the route.
Several parents also felt that `stranger danger' (or personal safety concerns), lack of crossing guards, lack of
bikeways, and distance from school presented barriers to walking and biking.
The survey also asked whether parents would allow their children to walk or bike more often if the concern
was addressed. Barriers whose removal might result in more walking and biking include:
    ·    Too much traffic along route (70 percent)             ·   No adults to walk or bike with (64 percent)
    ·    Walking or biking takes too long (68                  ·   Children's before or after school activities (61
         percent)                                                  percent)
    ·    Driving is more convenient (68 percent)



            Speeding traffic along route                                                                        9%

                     Unsafe intersections                                                                   9%

            Too much traffic along route                                                                   8%

                         Stranger danger                                                          7%

                      Too far from school                                                        7%

                      No crossing guards                                                     7%

                         Lack of bikeways                                                    7%

           No adults to walk or bike with                                              6%

  Child's before or after school activities                                            6%

             Child has too much to carry                                               6%

                             Bad weather                                           6%

          Walking/biking takes too long                                           5%

              Driving is more convenient                                          5%

          Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                     5%

           Lack of bike parking at school                     3%

                                    Other                2%

        Violence/crime in neighborhood                   1%

                   Don't know best route            1%

                                              0%   1%    2%   3%    4%     5%     6%        7%        8%    9%       10%

                            Figure 8-7: Concerns that Limit Walking and Biking to School


8-6 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                    District-Wide Action Plan


In a similar question, parents were asked whether they reduce the number of times they drove their children
to school given a series of options. Shown in Figure 8-8, parents particularly felt that they would change their
behaviors if it were easier to coordinate with other parents or kids. In addition, improving transit access and
bicycle and pedestrian education are also opportunities. Parents were less inclined to think that competing for
prizes in contests would result in their driving for fewer trips.



 25%

                                                                                                   21%
                                                                 19%              20%
 20%
                               16%

 15%          13%

                                                10%
 10%



   5%



   0%
         My child wanted My child wanted My child wanted My child knew    Transit/school     It was easier to
        to make "greener" to walk/bike to to compete for how to walk and   buses better     coordinate with
             choices       improve their prizes in contests bike safely  served my child's other parents/kids
                              health                                          school

                    Figure 8-8: Reasons Why Parents Might Reduce Driving Children to School



8.2. District-Wide Recommendations
The student hand tally and parent survey indicate substantial opportunities to encourage alternative modes to
for families traveling to and from school. With an overall 70 percent drive alone mode split, encouraging
walking, bicycling, carpooling, and transit use will enable more families to make the choice to not drive alone
to and from school.
The 72 percent of students who live within a quarter-mile of school and 70 percent within a half-mile being
driven alone indicate that many families could walk or bicycle if appropriate physical improvements, policies,
and programs are provided. With 5 percent of students who live within a half-mile of school already bicycling,
there is potential for encouragement to increase the numbers of students who choose to bicycle. There is also
substantial potential for encouraging carpooling and transit use by students who live further than a half-mile
from school. As discussed in Chapter 3, many middle schoolers at Ingrid B. Lacy already take transit.
Parents were generally supportive of walking and bicycling as being fun, important for health, and something
they wish they did more often. However, most parents felt that their children's school did not encourage
walking and bicycling. As the SR2S program is implemented in Pacifica and schools make a concerted effort to


                                                                              Safe Routes to School Report | 8-7
Chapter 8



encourage walking and bicycling, parents should begin to change their opinions on this question. Similarly,
the low participation in Safe Routes programs is due to few programs being available, and lack of advertising
the opportunities that currently exist. The comparison of parents' answers to these questions in the future
will indicate the success of the program at the different schools.
Parents most often identified unsafe intersections, speeding traffic along the route, too much traffic along the
route, and lack of bikeways as being barriers to walking and bicycling, indicating a need for infrastructure
improvements and suggested route maps that highlight lower-traffic streets and recommended street
crossings. However, the other top barriers represent more perception-based issues that can be addressed
through programs and encouragement (`stranger danger', lack of crossing guards).
Top programmatic recommendations include coordination with other parents and children, potentially
through use and promotion of the 511 SchoolPool RideMatching tool and organizing Walking School Buses
and Bike Trains. Working with SamTrans to provide bussing on the school bell schedules, providing transit
education to students, and working with drivers to improve bussing are likely to encourage more students
traveling via transit. Finally, walking and bicycling education was a high priority for parents and is a key
component of SR2S programs.

8.3. District-Wide Program Guide
The recommended programs below address these common issues. The recommendations address the other "4
E's" of Safe Routes to School (Education, Encouragement, Enforcement, and Evaluation). The San Mateo
County Safe Routes to School Program Guide provides additional information about the recommended
programs and includes additional potential encouragement and educational programs. The program is
available at http://www.smcoe.k12.ca.us/sr2s

                                            8.3.1.       Education Programs

                                            School Safety Campaign
                                            District-wide, parents and school administrators expressed
                                            concern about unsafe motorist behavior. Such behavior, reported
                                            and observed, includes illegal turning movements, loading in the
                                            travel lane, illegal parking and speeding.
                                            A School Safety Campaign implemented through a variety of
                                            media outlets can reduce the frequency of illegal and unsafe
                                            driving behavior. An example safety campaign is "Street Smarts",
                                            which communities throughout the San Francisco Bay Area have
                                            implemented with great success. The Street Smarts campaign
                                            provides implementing agencies with customizable materials
                                            about traffic safety for radio, TV, classrooms, outdoor media and
                                            much more. These high quality materials show the community
  The StreetSmarts marketing campaign       that the District and City value safe school commuting.
   educates students, parents, and other    The district may consider working with the City to develop or
     drivers about how to travel safely.    purchase a similar campaign.


8-8 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                    District-Wide Action Plan


8.3.2. Encouragement Programs

School Specific Circulation Maps
School related traffic congestion is common at most schools in the district. Congestion typically occurs in
specific locations and could be reduced if parents choose alternative routes to school.
Where an alternative circulation plan would help to alleviate traffic congestion at schools in Pacifica, they are
symbolized by blue dashed lines in the improvement plans of this report. These may be modified to achieve
maximum effectiveness and developed for other schools in coordination with the city.
After review by the District, administration, and parents from the affected school, the District should consider
developing circulation maps for distribution via school newsletters and websites. The circulation map should
be graphically simple and recommend routes for motorists and pedestrians, in addition to locations of on- and
off-site loading zones, crossing guards and traffic signals. The District and affected school should review the
circulation plan annually and modify accordingly.

SchoolPool
SchoolPool is a Ride Matching service that helps families coordinate with each other to commute to school
together by matching parents with similar commutes. The interactive website is offered by 511.org, a program
of the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC). Fliers and brochures are available to download and
distribute to parents to promote the program, and schools can offer incentives for parents who sign up.
Such a program may reduce school related congestion, particularly at schools where families live within close
proximity of school but do not feel comfortable walking to school. This scenario is thought to play out at
many schools due to the amount of congestion relative to the small enrollment areas.
The Peninsula Congestion Relief Alliance provides commuter incentives to parents who carpool and
Metropolitan Transportation Commission provides matching services at the websites below.
http://www.commute.org
http://www.schoolpool.511.org

Park and Walk
Pacifica does not have neighborhood schools; students are dispersed throughout the city and may live a
significant distance away from their schools. This and the city's hilly topography create barriers to walking
and bicycling. Park and Walk programs designate meeting points where parents can drop their children off
and either walk the last leg of the journey into school or link them with other parents who can complete the
journey to school with their children. Such a program can disperse congestion through a larger area around
the school site and demonstrate solidarity with their peers who walk and bike to school. Most schools in
Pacifica have nearby sites that could serve as Park and Walk locations.




                                                                               Safe Routes to School Report | 8-9
Chapter 8



8.3.3. Enforcement Programs

                                                 Crossing Guard Program
                                                 Crossing guards serve a critical function to ensure safe school
                                                 crossings and acting as ad-hoc traffic controllers. While some
                                                 school crossing guards are funded from the Pacifica School
                                                 District, others are funded through Parent-Teacher
                                                 Organizations.
                                                 The District should ensure that a crossing guard program is
                                                 provided for every future school year. Crossing guards have
                                                 proven to be essential for pedestrian safety and orderly traffic
  A crossing guard helps students cross a busy   operations and extremely popular among parents. Additional
      street near Sunset Ridge Elementary.       crossing guards may be beneficial for some schools in Pacifica.

Parent & Student Valet
School loading areas often become congested and disorderly without supervision. At the same time, expecting
teachers or school staff to manage all the loading zones of a school can be infeasible. Training parent and
student volunteers to manage traffic and assist in loading can significantly improve safety and the traffic flow
around schools.
Under a valet program, parents and students are trained in how to keep traffic moving in a loading zone, how
to properly assist students in and out of vehicles, and how to properly discourage unsafe or undesirable habits
in the loading zone. Volunteers are often outfitted with florescent vests to increase their visibility and denote
their role as a school representative.
While valet duties are not suitable for young children, students in the 4th grade and above can act effectively
as a valet program when under adult supervision. Such programs also provide responsibilities and valuable
character-building opportunities for students.

8.3.4. Evaluation Programs

Student Hand Tallies and Parent Surveys
Collecting and analyzing school commute data is an excellent way to support grant applications and other
funding applications. Student Hand Tallies ask students to raise their hands in response to the commute mode
they use to get to and from school. Typically the teacher administers the survey, which only takes a few
minutes. Parent surveys also ask how students get to and from school, but since the parent completes the
questionnaire, parents are also asked about the factors that influence their school commute mode choice and if
they are interested in participating in SR2S programs.
The National Center for Safe Routes to School provides Student Hand Tally and Parent Survey forms and will
enter the data from those forms. This can be a cost effective way to understand how families get to and from
school and the reasons for their mode choice. The District should consider administrating one or both types of
surveys. More information about survey administration and collection can be found at:
http://www.saferoutesinfo.org/data-central/data-collection-forms


8-10 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                               District-Wide Action Plan




9.           District-Wide Action Plan
1. Form a Safe Routes to School Taskforce
Most successful Safe Routes to School programs are directed by a Taskforce that identifies improvements to
school access points and circulation. The Taskforce should be a partnership from a variety of organizations
and agencies such as:
        ·    District/school staff and administration                                  ·     City planners and engineers
        ·    Parent/Teacher                 Association                                ·     Community representatives such as
             representatives                                                                 bicycle/pedestrian advocates and non-
        ·    Police Department representation                                                profit organizations with a goal of a
                                                                                             sustainable community

These partners serve to represent and address the four "E's" of Safe Route to School: Education,
Encouragement, Enforcement and Evaluation. The Palo Alto SR2S Taskforce serves as a successful example.
Formed by community members in 2004, the Palo Alto SR2S Taskforce is made up of a multi-disciplined
partnership of organizations and agencies that has leveraged resources from throughout the community to
create a sustainable SR2S program.

2. Prioritize Programs
District administration should use the information contained in this report, and the accompanying County of
San Mateo Safe Routes to School Tool Box, to begin a prioritization process for projects deemed worthy. This
process may begin with student and parent surveys, followed by consultation with City staff, Police
Department staff, and other key stakeholders.

3. Identify Funding Sources
There are numerous funding sources for both Safe Routes to School infrastructure improvements and
programs. Most of sources are competitive and typically award applicants that demonstrate existing and
ongoing support for Safe Routes to School. Some typical funding sources are listed below. 7
        ·    State and Federal Safe Routes to School Grant The typical state application due date is in March
             and applicants may use 10% of funds for programs. The typical federal application due date is in July
             and applicants may use funds for infrastructure projects or programs.
        ·    Bicycle Transportation Account, typical application due in March and funds bicycle facilities.
        ·    Office of Traffic Safety has in the past provided mini grants for helmet giveaways and other
             programs.

4. Identify School Champions
School Champions are typically volunteer parents or community members that lead and organize SR2S
programs. Potential candidates may be people that are already passionate about walking and bicycling or
traffic issues. Ideal candidates are well connected within their community and enjoy organizing initiatives.
Potential Champion duties may include organizing walking school buses and helping organize school events.


7   Additional information about these sources can be found at: http://www.dot.ca.gov/hq/LocalPrograms/


                                                                                                          Safe Routes to School Report | 9-1
Chapter 9


This page left intentionally blank




9-2 | Pacifica School District
                                                    Example Engineering Devices and Cost Assumptions




Appendix A. Example Engineering Devices and Cost
            Assumptions
Design of the physical environment around schools is integral to a comprehensive Safe Routes to School
Program that ensures walking, biking, and other "green" forms of travel are convenient and safe. The
engineering improvements presented in this report follow the standards set forth by the California
Department of Transportation (Caltrans). Most of the proposed signage and striping improvements are
relatively simple and cost effective to install when compared to more intensive engineering devices, such as
curb extensions and paths. Planning level construction cost estimates for the recommendations are intended
to inform the reader and are provided for informational purposes only. Costs may change as recommendations
are implemented.

In accordance with Caltrans and industry standard terms, "shall" "should" or "may" are used to denote when
to install the example engineering devices. Shall is used when an improvement is required to be installed
under pre-defined conditions. May is used when an improvement installation is optional under pre-defined
conditions. Should is used when an improvement supports the effectiveness of required improvements.




                                                                           Safe Routes to School Report | A-1
Appendix A


Signage
School related signage warns motorists of a school zone or crosswalk and regulates their movements to ensure
the safest conditions possible for pedestrians and bicyclists. Warning signs and regulatory signs with posts
typically cost around $400 and $200 each, respectively.

A.1.1.1. Warning Signs
       Assembly A                       Assembly B                       Assembly D                   In-Pavement Sign




 May be installed up to 500         Shall be installed at an      Shall be installed 100 feet in       May be installed in an
 feet in advance of a school.       uncontrolled crosswalk        advance of an uncontrolled          uncontrolled crosswalk.
                                        (no stop sign).                    crosswalk.


A.1.1.2. Regulatory Signs
         No Turn                         No U-Turn                       Loading Zone                  School Speed Limit




No Right and Left Turn signs     No U-Turn signs are typically     Loading zones designate a pick     May be installed up to 500
are typically used to improve     used to reduce conflicts with     up/drop off location and may      feet in advance of a school
circulation and reduce queue       pedestrians and motorists.        include a plaque allowing        and is installed with a time
           lengths.                                               parking during off-loading times.    sensitive flashing beacon.
                                                                                                        Engineers determine the
                                                                                                              posted speed.




A-2 | Pacifica School District
                                                         Example Engineering Devices and Cost Assumptions



Striping
School related striping includes crosswalks and curb colors. Bicycle lane striping and markings can be also
considered school related. Bicycle-related striping improvements, however, were not recommended in this
report. Thermoplastic is recommended for striping improvements. Thermoplastic costs about $2 per square
foot, equating to $200 to $400 for crosswalk installation.

A.1.1.3. Crosswalks
Crosswalks connect one corner of a street to the opposite side and do not have to be marked with paint or
thermoplastic unless where no corner exists (mid-block crosswalk). In California, yellow crosswalks can be
used on roadways where students frequently cross. Caltrans standard is for all crosswalks contiguous to
schools to be yellow. Crosswalk may also be yellow if within 600 feet of a school or school grounds. White
crosswalks are used in all other areas.
    High Visibility Crosswalk                  Transverse Crosswalk                     Lighted Crosswalk




    High visibility crosswalks have      Transverse crosswalks have latitudinal    Pedestrian activated lights may be
   longitudinal and latitudinal lines.                   lines.                     installed on a sign and/or in the
                                                                                               pavement.


A.1.1.4. Curb Colors
School Loading Zone curbs are white.

Freight/Bus Loading Zone curbs are yellow.
Accessible curbside parking curbs are blue.

No Parking Zone curbs are red.




                                                                                  Safe Routes to School Report | A-3
Appendix A


Curb Extensions
There are a range of devices that work to reduce motorist speeds. This report recommends curb extensions in
many locations, most of which are skewed intersections (where streets do not intersect at 90 degree angles).
Curb extensions are recommended where the radius of a corner could be increased to reduce the speed of
turning vehicles, discourage U-turns, and/or reduce crosswalk distance. The cost of installing a curb
extension depends of several circumstances including the presence of drainage utilities. On average, curb
extensions typically cost around $30,000 each to install.
                                               Curb Extension




                                  Curb extensions reduce the width of a roadway.




A-4 | Pacifica School District
                                                                  Survey and Tally Results by School



Appendix B. Survey and Tally Results by School

Student Hand Tally Results
Cabrillo
           Walk         Bike        School Bus   Family Vehicle   Carpool      Transit        Other
Numbers
AM                110          35            6            1058           217           40              9
PM                126          29           12             949           258           77              8
Total             236          64           18            2007           475          117             17
Percents
AM                7%           2%          0%              72%          15%              3%           1%
PM                9%           2%          1%              65%          18%              5%           1%
Total             8%           2%          1%              68%          16%              4%           1%


Ingrid B. Lacy
           Walk         Bike        School Bus   Family Vehicle   Carpool      Transit        Other
Numbers
AM                 77           5            0             635           176          234             24
PM                 59           2            0             485           170          181              5
Total             136           7            0            1120           346          415             29
Percents
AM                7%           0%          0%              55%          15%           20%             2%
PM                7%           0%          0%              54%          19%           20%             1%
Total             7%           0%          0%              55%          17%           20%             1%


Ocean Shore
           Walk         Bike        School Bus   Family Vehicle   Carpool      Transit        Other
Numbers
AM                 75          17           12             596            92              7           10
PM                 89          12           12             522            91              9            5
Total             164          29           24            1118           183             16           15
Percents
AM                 9%          2%          1%              74%          11%              1%           1%
PM                12%          2%          2%              71%          12%              1%           1%
Total             11%          2%          2%              72%          12%              1%           1%




                                                                      Safe Routes to School Report | B-1
Appendix B


Ortega
                Walk             Bike        School Bus   Family Vehicle   Carpool     Transit         Other
Numbers
AM                      119              6           13              853          92             10             5
PM                      115              0           17              753         121             44             4
Total                   234              6           30             1606         213             54             9
Percents
AM                     11%              1%           1%             78%          8%              1%            0%
PM                     11%              0%           2%             71%         11%              4%            0%
Total                  11%              0%           1%             75%         10%              3%            0%


Sunset Ridge
                Walk             Bike        School Bus   Family Vehicle   Carpool     Transit         Other
Numbers
AM                      220              8            0             1078          61              8             1
PM                      211              3            0              976          90              5             0
Total                   431             11            0             2054         151             13             1
Percents
AM                     16%              1%           0%             78%          4%              1%            0%
PM                     16%              0%           0%             76%          7%              0%            0%
Total                  16%              0%           0%             77%          6%              0%            0%


Vallemar
                Walk             Bike        School Bus   Family Vehicle   Carpool     Transit         Other
Numbers
AM                      199             14            0             1153         131              37            8
PM                      200             15            5             1015         199              99            6
Total                   399             29            5             2168         330             136           14
Percents
AM                     13%              1%           0%             75%          8%              2%            1%
PM                     13%              1%           0%             66%         13%              6%            0%
Total                  13%              1%           0%             70%         11%              4%            0%




B-2 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                            Survey and Tally Results by School


Parent Survey Results
District-Wide Parent Survey Results
Date Collected:                             Spring 2012
Total Surveys Received:                     296

Gender
n= 291                                                            Count         Percent
                                                 Male                 148               51%
                                                 Female               143               49%


Grade
n=290

   16%
Grades                                                                                        15%
n= 290
   14%
                                           12%
Percent of Respondents




                         12%                                              11%
                                     10%            10%
                         10%                                                                         9%         9%
                                                              8%
                         8%
                                                                                  7%
                         6%
                                                                                                                              4%
                         4%
                                                                                                                       2%             2%       2%
                         2%    1%

                         0%
                               Pre    K     1           2         3        4       5           6     7          8      9      10       11      12
                                                                                       Grade


Does/do your child(ren)'s school(s) have a Safe Routes to School Program?
n= 283



                                                                                  10%


                                                                                                          Yes
                                                                                               18%

                                                                                                          No


                                                                                                          Don't Know
                                                            72%




                                                                                                                            Safe Routes to School Report | B- 3
Appendix B


What is the approximate distance from your home to the school?
n=289

   40%
                                                                                                                        Number            Percent
   35%                                                                                  34%
                                                                                                     1/4 mile or
   30%                                                               28%                             less                            26           9%
                                                                                                     1/4 - 1/2
   25%
                                                                                                     mile                            31        11%
   20%                                                19%

   15%                                                                                               1/2 - 1 mile                    54        19%
                                        11%
                           9%
   10%
                                                                                                     1 -2 miles                      81        28%
          5%                                                                                         More than 2
          0%                                                                                         miles                           97        34%
                       1/4 mile or 1/4 - 1/2 mile 1/2 - 1 mile     1 -2 miles     More than 2
                          less                                                       miles
                                              Distance from School                                   Total                         289        100%


How did your child get TO school?
Mode by day of the week
n=288
                   1,200

                   1,000                                                                                                  Monday
                                                                                                                          Tuesday
                    800
 Number of Trips




                                                                                                                          Wednesday
                                                                                                                          Thursday
                    600
                                                                                                                          Friday

                    400

                    200

                      0
                                Walk           Bike         Driven Solo         School Bus      Carpool             City Bus/         Other
                                                                                                                     Transit
                                                                                  Mode

                                                                          Driven                                        City Bus/
Travel to School                               Walk         Bike           Solo         School Bus     Carpool           Transit          Other
Monday                                                20             2            199            1                45                 20             0
Tuesday                                               15             3            201            0                47                 18             3
Wednesday                                             13             4            203            0                46                 18             2
Thursday                                              18             1            205            0                44                 17             3
Friday                                                20             4            199            0                39                 21             2
Total trips                                           86           14           1,007            1               221                94            10
Percent of trips                                      6%            1%            70%           0%               15%                 7%           1%




B-4 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                       Survey and Tally Results by School


How did your child get FROM school?
Mode by day of the week
n=289

                   1,200


                   1,000                                                                                Monday

                                                                                                        Tuesday
                    800
 Number of Trips




                                                                                                        Wednesday

                                                                                                        Thursday
                    600
                                                                                                        Friday

                    400


                    200


                      0
                           Walk     Bike        Driven Solo      School Bus       Carpool          City Bus/          Other
                                                                                                    Transit
                                                                   Mode

                                                              Driven                                   City Bus/
Travel from school                  Walk         Bike          Solo      School Bus     Carpool         Transit          Other
Monday                                     26            2         191            1               45                21            2
Tuesday                                    26            2         189            1               42                26            3
Wednesday                                  23            3         190            0               49                21            2
Thursday                                   25            2         184            0               45                30            1
Friday                                     30            3         188            2               39                22            3
Total trips                             130             12        942             4              220               120           11
Percent of trips                           9%           1%        65%            0%              15%                8%           1%


Mode Split TO school                                                     Mode Split FROM school
            City Bus/                                                                 City Bus/
             Transit, Other, 1%             Bike, 1%
                                                                                       Transit, Other, 1%
Carpool,       7%                                                                        8%                         Bike, 1%
  15%                    Walk,                                                                         Walk,
                           6%                                                                           9%
 School
 Bus, 0%                                                                              Carpool,
                                                                                        15%

                                                                       School
                                                                       Bus, 0%

                                   Driven                                                                  Driven
                                  Solo, 70%                                                               Solo, 65%




                                                                                                       Safe Routes to School Report | B- 5
Appendix B


Overall mode split TO and FROM school
Mode by day of the week
                    2,500


                                                                                                             Monday
                    2,000
                                                                                                             Tuesday
                                                                                                             Wednesday
  Number of Trips




                    1,500
                                                                                                             Thursday
                                                                                                             Friday
                    1,000


                     500


                       0
                            Walk         Bike         Driven Solo    School Bus           Carpool       City Bus/        Other
                                                                                                         Transit
                                                                        Mode

                                                                  Driven                                    City Bus/
Travel for all trips                    Walk          Bike         Solo      School Bus       Carpool        Transit         Other
Monday                                          46            4        390                2          90                 41            2
Tuesday                                         41            5        390                1          89                 44            6
Wednesday                                       36            7        393                0          95                 39            4
Thursday                                        43            3        389                0          89                 47            4
Friday                                          50            7        387                2          78                 43            5
Total trips                                 216              26      1,949                5         441                214           21
Percent of trips                                8%           1%        68%            0%            15%                 7%           1%
Mode by day of the week


Mode split for all trips
                                                      City Bus/ Other, 1%
                                                     Transit, 7%                Bike, 1%
                                                                      Walk,
                                                                       8%


                                                      Carpool, 15%
                               School Bus, 0%


                                                                           Driven Solo,
                                                                               68%




B-6 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                                         Survey and Tally Results by School


Weekly Trips by Mode and Distance from School
Mode by distance from school
                                       1,200
                                                                                                                                                         Other
                                       1,000
           Number of Trips per Week




                                                                                                                                                         City Bus/
                                                                                                                                                         Transit
                                            800
                                                                                                                                                         Carpools

                                            600                                                                                                          School Bus

                                            400                                                                                                          Driven

                                            200                                                                                                          Bikes

                                                                                                                                                         Walks
                                              0
                                                  1/4 mile or less    1/4 - 1/2 mile         1/2 - 1 mile      1 - 2 miles        More than 2
                                                                                                                                     miles
                                                                                  Distance from School

                                                                                                                                          City Bus/
                                                                     Walks          Bikes        Driven     School Bus       Carpools      Transit           Other
1/4 mile or less                                                             57              0        183             0             14                   0             0
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                               60             16        215             0             15                   1             2
1/2 - 1 mile                                                                 73              2        385             3             49                   9             0
1 - 2 miles                                                                  18              4        509             0            182                96               0
More than 2 miles                                                            8               4        637             3            181              108               19
Grand Total                                                             216                 26      1,929             6            441              214               21


Mode Split by Distance from School
                          100%


                                      80%
                                                                                                                                                 Other
                                                                                                                                                 City Bus/ Transit
Percent of Mode




                                      60%
                                                                                                                                                 Carpools

                                      40%                                                                                                        School Bus
                                                                                                                                                 Driven
                                      20%                                                                                                        Bikes
                                                                                                                                                 Walks
                                      0%
                                             1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile     1/2 - 1 mile    1 - 2 miles                 More than 2 miles
                                                                            Distance from School

                                                                                                                                          City Bus/
                                                                     Walks          Bikes        Driven School Bus           Carpools      Transit           Other
1/4 mile or less                                                         22%             0%           72%       0%                  6%               0%               0%
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                           19%             5%           70%       0%                  5%               0%               1%
1/2 - 1 mile                                                             14%             0%           74%       1%                  9%               2%               0%
1 - 2 miles                                                               2%             0%           63%       0%                22%               12%               0%
More than 2 miles                                                         1%             0%           66%       0%                19%               11%               2%
Grand Total                                                               8%             1%          68%        0%                15%                8%               1%


                                                                                                                                         Safe Routes to School Report | B- 7
Appendix B


Weekly Miles Traveled by Mode

                 2,500

                 2,000

                 1,500
 Miles




                 1,000

                         500

                           0
                                     Walks            Bikes           Driven         School Bus       Carpools        City Bus/           Other
                                                                                                                       Transit
                                                                                        Mode

                                                                                                                             City Bus/
                                                      Walks        Bikes         Driven       School Bus   Carpools           Transit         Other
Morning Trips                                                 55           16         2,046           10           609                278               30
Afternoon Trips                                               79           15         2,115            6           474                318               41
All Trips                                                  134             31        4,160            16         1,082                596          6,091
Percent of Total Mileage                                      2%           1%          68%            0%           18%                10%               1%
Note:This analysis uses the mode frequency by respondent and assumes the median of the distance from school categories or
the respondent-provided distance if greater than two miles.


How strongly do you agree with the following statement?
a. n=152 b. n=152 c. n=152 d. n=150

                                                                    Walking and bicycling is...
                         160

                         140

                         120
                                                                                                                                  Strongly Disagree
   Number of Responses




                         100
                                                                                                                                  Somewhat Disagree
                          80
                                                                                                                                  Neutral/ No Opinion
                          60
                                                                                                                                  Somewhat Agree
                          40
                                                                                                                                  Strongly Agree
                          20

                           0
                               ...fun for my child(ren) ...important for my     ...encouraged by my ...something I wish we
                                                        child(ren)'s health        child(ren)'s school   did more often




B-8 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                        Survey and Tally Results by School


Have you or your child(ren) participated in the following Safe Routes to School events/programs?
 20%                                              19%
 18%
 16%
 14%
 12%
 10%
  8%
  6%
                                                                                                      4%
  4%                           3%                                    3%
                                                                                                                       2%
  2%         1%
                                                                                     1%
  0%
         Safe Routes      Traffic Safety    Walk and Roll     Bicycle Rodeos    511 SchoolPool   Walking School      Other
          Classroom        Assemblies       to School Days                                            Bus/
           Lessons                                                                                Bike Train


For any events/programs you answered "yes" for in the previous question, did your child(ren) walk, bike, or
carpool more often after participating?
Note: Includes responses from respondents who previously indicated that they had participated in the specific program.


  Walking School Bus/
      Bike Train
                                25%                                       75%

                                                                                                             Walked/biked/
       511 SchoolPool                                         100%
                                                                                                             carpooled/took
                                                                                                             transit more
       Bicycle Rodeos                                         100%

       Walk and Roll                                                                                         Did not walk/bike/
       to School Days
                                26%                                       74%                                carpool/take transit
                                                                                                             more
        Traffic Safety
         Assemblies
                                           50%                                    50%

       Safe Routes
    Classroom Lessons
                                                              100%

                         0%           20%               40%           60%            80%            100%

                                                 Walked/biked/ carpooled/took              Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                         transit more                               transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                      0                                             2
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                          1                                             1
Walk and Rollto School Days                                        6                                            17
Bicycle Rodeos                                                     0                                             5
511 SchoolPool                                                     0                                             5
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                      1                                             3
Other                                                              5




                                                                                                        Safe Routes to School Report | B- 9
Appendix B


If you have participated in the Safe Routes program, do you drive yourself or your child(ren) less often for non-
school trips?
n=134

               Walking School Bus/
                   Bike Train
                                                                    100%

                      511 SchoolPool                                100%
                                                                                                                   Walked/biked/
                                                                                                                   carpooled/took transit
                      Bicycle Rodeos                50%                               50%                          more

                      Walk and Roll
                      to School Days
                                                    50%                               50%

                       Traffic Safety
                        Assemblies                                                                                 Did not walk/bike/
                                                                                                                   carpool/take transit
                      Safe Routes                                                                                  more
                   Classroom Lessons
                                                                    100%

                                        0%        20%         40%          60%          80%            100%

                                                  Walked/biked/ carpooled/took                   Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                          transit more                                    transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                       0                                                  1
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                           0                                                  0
Walk and Rollto School Days                                         3                                                  3
Bicycle Rodeos                                                      1                                                  1
511 SchoolPool                                                      0                                                  1
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                       0                                                  1

At what grade level would you allow your child(ren) to walk or bike to/from school without an adult?
  35%
                                                              31%
  30%

  25%

  20%

                                             14%        15%
  15%
                                                                                            10%
  10%                                                                  9%
                                                                                 7%
                                        6%
                                                                                                      4%
   5%                         2%
                     2%                                                                                                 1%
   0%
         Kinder-      1       2          3    4          5     6       7         8           9        10      11         12      I would
         garten                                                                                                                 not feel
                                                                                                                              comfortable
                                                                                                                              at any grade




B-10 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                          Survey and Tally Results by School


What concerns limit your child(ren)'s ability to walk or bike to/from school?


              Speeding traffic along route                                                                                    9%

                     Unsafe intersections                                                                                    9%

            Too much traffic along route                                                                                8%

                           Stranger danger                                                                         7%

                        Too far from school                                                                   7%

                         No crossing guards                                                               7%

                          Lack of bikeways                                                                7%

          No adults to walk or bike with                                                            6%

 Child's before or after school activities                                                       6%

              Child has too much to carry                                                        6%

                                 Bad weather                                                   6%

           Walking/biking takes too long                                                  5%

               Driving is more convenient                                                 5%

         Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                             5%

          Lack of bike parking at school                            3%

                                       Other                   2%

        Violence/crime in neighborhood                         1%

                    Don't know best route                 1%

                                                0%   1%        2%   3%       4%   5%        6%           7%        8%        9%      10%


                                     Yes        Percent                                                        Yes                Percent
Don't know best route                      13         1%             Child's before or after schoo                       81             6%
neighborhood                               20         1%             with                                                82             6%
Other                                      22         2%             Lack of bikeways                                    91             7%

Lack of bike parking at school             36         3%             No crossing guards                                  92             7%
paths                                      65         5%             Too far from school                                 94             7%
Driving is more convenient                 72         5%             Stranger danger                                    100             7%
Walking/biking takes too long              72         5%             route                                              108             8%
Bad weather                                77         6%             Unsafe intersections                               114             9%
                                                                     Speeding traffic along
Child has too much to carry                80         6%             route                                              116             9%




                                                                                                         Safe Routes to School Report | B- 11
Appendix B


Would you allow your child(ren) to walk/bike more often if this concern was addressed?
Chart shows "yes" responses.


              Lack of bike parking at school                             29%

                          No crossing guards                                  33%

                        Unsafe intersections                                       35%

                            Lack of bikeways                                                                59%

             Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                          38%

              No adults to walk or bike with                                                                      64%

               Too much traffic along route                                                                              70%

                Speeding traffic along route                                                                60%

                Child has too much to carry                                                            56%

Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                                                               61%

              Walking/biking takes too long                                                                         68%

                 Driving is more convenient                                                                         68%

                         Too far from school                                                          55%

                                                 0%   10%   20%         30%         40%       50%      60%         70%         80%


                                                             Yes              No          Not Sure      Total
Too far from school                                                60               38           30                128
Driving is more convenient                                         36               44           37                117
Walking/biking takes too long                                      54               44           23                121
Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                     49               46           26                121
Child has too much to carry                                        68               37           19                124
Speeding traffic along route                                       91               28           15                134
Too much traffic along route                                       88               26           16                130
No adults to walk or bike with                                     78               35           15                128
Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                     67               34           18                119
Lack of bikeways                                                   76               31           20                127
Unsafe intersections                                               92               23           16                131
No crossing guards                                                 82               26           20                128
Lack of bike parking at school                                     43               45           26                114
Stranger danger                                                    76               33           19                128
Violence/crime in neighborhood                                     41               49           27                117
Bad weather                                                        38               52           25                115
Don't know best route to school                                    32               48           30                110
Other                                                              10



B-12 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                      Survey and Tally Results by School


I would reduce the number of times I drive my child(ren) to school if...

 25%

                                                                                                                  21%
                                                                                               20%
 20%                                                                       19%

                                      16%

 15%
               13%

                                                        10%
 10%



  5%



  0%
        My child wanted to My child wanted to My child wanted to My child knew how Transit/school      It was easier to
         make "greener"       walk/bike to    compete for prizes to walk and bike buses better served coordinate with
             choices         improve their        in contests          safely      my child's school other parents/kids
                                 health




Are you interested in participating in any of the following Safe Routes to School tasks?
25

                                                                                 21
20

                                                   16
15
                                                                                                               13


10
                     8


 5



 0
       Volunteer for student events     Organize a neighborhood      Help identify traffic safety    Help develop Suggested
              and contests              Walking School Bus or Bike        issues at schools          Routes to School maps
                                                  Train




                                                                                                     Safe Routes to School Report | B- 13
Appendix B




This page intentionally left blank.




B-14 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                             Survey and Tally Results by School


Cabrillo Elementary Parent Survey Results
Date Collected:                             Spring 2012
Total Surveys Received:                     80

Gender
n= 79                                                             Count         Percent
                                                 Male                     38            48%
                                                 Female                   41            52%


Grade
n=79

   18%
Grades                                                                    16%
n= 79
   16%
                                           14%      14%
                         14%
Percent of Respondents




                                                              13%
                         12%                                                      11%
                                     10%                                                             10%
                         10%
                         8%
                                                                                              6%
                         6%                                                                                      5%

                         4%
                         2%
                         0%
                               Pre    K     1           2         3        4       5           6      7          8      9       10      11      12
                                                                                       Grade


Does/do your child(ren)'s school(s) have a Safe Routes to School Program?
n= 77



                                                                                 8%


                                                                                                           Yes
                                                                                               23%

                                                                                                           No



                                                            69%                                            Don't Know




                                                                                                                            Safe Routes to School Report | B- 15
Appendix B


What is the approximate distance from your home to the school?
n=79

  35%
                                                      30%                                                               Number            Percent
  30%                                                                                                1/4 mile or
                                                                                                     less                             7           9%
  25%                                                                23%
                                                                                        22%          1/4 - 1/2
  20%                                                                                                mile                            13        16%
                                        16%
  15%
                                                                                                     1/2 - 1 mile                    24        30%
  10%                      9%
                                                                                                     1 -2 miles                      18        23%
   5%
                                                                                                     More than 2
   0%                                                                                                miles                           17        22%
                       1/4 mile or 1/4 - 1/2 mile 1/2 - 1 mile     1 -2 miles     More than 2
                          less                                                       miles
                                              Distance from School                                   Total                          79        100%


How did your child get TO school?
Mode by day of the week
n=78
                     350

                     300                                                                                                  Monday

                     250                                                                                                  Tuesday
   Number of Trips




                                                                                                                          Wednesday
                     200
                                                                                                                          Thursday

                     150                                                                                                  Friday

                     100

                     50

                       0
                                Walk           Bike         Driven Solo         School Bus      Carpool             City Bus/         Other
                                                                                                                     Transit
                                                                                  Mode

                                                                          Driven                                        City Bus/
Travel to School                               Walk         Bike           Solo         School Bus     Carpool           Transit          Other
Monday                                                 5             2             65            0                  6                 0             0
Tuesday                                                4             1             67            0                  6                 0             0
Wednesday                                              5             0             66            0                  6                 0             0
Thursday                                               5             0             67            0                  6                 0             1
Friday                                                 5             2             65            0                  5                 0             0
Total trips                                           24             5           330             0                29                 0              1
Percent of trips                                      6%            1%            85%           0%                7%                 0%           0%




B-16 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                    Survey and Tally Results by School


How did your child get FROM school?
Mode by day of the week
n=78

                      300


                      250                                                                                            Monday

                                                                                                                     Tuesday
                      200
    Number of Trips




                                                                                                                     Wednesday

                                                                                                                     Thursday
                      150
                                                                                                                     Friday

                      100


                      50


                        0
                            Walk           Bike        Driven Solo      School Bus           Carpool            City Bus/         Other
                                                                                                                 Transit
                                                                          Mode

                                                                     Driven                                         City Bus/
Travel from school                        Walk         Bike           Solo         School Bus       Carpool          Transit          Other
Monday                                             9           2              53              0               14                 0             0
Tuesday                                           10           1              54              0               11                 2             0
Wednesday                                          5           1              58              0               13                 1             0
Thursday                                          10           0              51              0               14                 3             0
Friday                                             7           1              55              1               12                 1             1
Total trips                                       41          5          271                 1                64                 7            1
Percent of trips                               11%            1%          69%                0%           16%                   2%            0%


Mode Split TO school                                                               Mode Split FROM school
               City Bus/                  Other, 0%                                               City Bus/
                Transit,                                                                           Transit,     Other,
  Carpool,
                  0%                     Walk, 6%                                                    2%           0%
     7%                                                Bike, 1%
  School                                                                                                                         Bike, 1%
                                                                                                                     Walk,
  Bus, 0%
                                                                                                     Carpool,         11%
                                                                                   School              16%
                                                                                   Bus, 0%




                                    Driven                                                                          Driven
                                   Solo, 85%                                                                       Solo, 69%




                                                                                                                   Safe Routes to School Report | B- 17
Appendix B


Overall mode split TO and FROM school
Mode by day of the week
                       700

                       600                                                                                  Monday
                                                                                                            Tuesday
                       500
                                                                                                            Wednesday
     Number of Trips




                       400                                                                                  Thursday
                                                                                                            Friday
                       300

                       200

                       100

                         0
                             Walk        Bike         Driven Solo      School Bus       Carpool        City Bus/        Other
                                                                                                        Transit
                                                                         Mode

                                                                   Driven                                  City Bus/
Travel for all trips                    Walk         Bike           Solo       School Bus    Carpool        Transit         Other
Monday                                          14             4        118             0          20                   0            0
Tuesday                                         14             2        121             0          17                   2            0
Wednesday                                       10             1        124             0          19                   1            0
Thursday                                        15             0        118             0          20                   3            1
Friday                                          12             3        120             1          17                   1            1
Total trips                                     65          10          601             1          93                   7           2
Percent of trips                                8%          1%          77%            0%         12%                  1%           0%
Mode by day of the week


Mode split for all trips
                                                  City Bus/
                                                                   Other, 0%
                                                 Transit, 1%
                                                                                  Bike, 1%
                                    School Bus, 0%                   Walk,
                                                            Carpool,  8%
                                                              12%




                                                                        Driven Solo,
                                                                            77%




B-18 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                                               Survey and Tally Results by School


Weekly Trips by Mode and Distance from School
Mode by distance from school
                                            250
                                                                                                                                                             Other
                                            200
           Number of Trips per Week




                                                                                                                                                             City Bus/
                                                                                                                                                             Transit
                                                                                                                                                             Carpools
                                            150
                                                                                                                                                             School Bus
                                            100
                                                                                                                                                             Driven

                                            50                                                                                                               Bikes

                                                                                                                                                             Walks
                                              0
                                                  1/4 mile or less    1/4 - 1/2 mile         1/2 - 1 mile        1 - 2 miles        More than 2
                                                                                                                                       miles
                                                                                  Distance from School

                                                                                                                                               City Bus/
                                                                     Walks          Bikes        Driven       School Bus       Carpools         Transit          Other
1/4 mile or less                                                             14              0           54             0                 2                  0             0
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                               15              5        102               0                 5                  1             2
1/2 - 1 mile                                                                 25              0        190               1             13                     1             0
1 - 2 miles                                                                  10              3        110               0             53                     3             0
More than 2 miles                                                            1               2        145               0             20                     2             0
Grand Total                                                              65                 10        601               1             93                     7             2


Mode Split by Distance from School
                          100%


                                      80%
                                                                                                                                                     Other
                                                                                                                                                     City Bus/ Transit
Percent of Mode




                                      60%
                                                                                                                                                     Carpools

                                      40%                                                                                                            School Bus
                                                                                                                                                     Driven
                                      20%                                                                                                            Bikes
                                                                                                                                                     Walks
                                      0%
                                             1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile     1/2 - 1 mile    1 - 2 miles                   More than 2 miles
                                                                            Distance from School

                                                                                                                                               City Bus/
                                                                     Walks          Bikes        Driven School Bus             Carpools         Transit          Other
1/4 mile or less                                                         20%             0%           77%       0%                    3%                   0%             0%
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                           12%             4%           78%       0%                    4%                   1%             2%
1/2 - 1 mile                                                             11%             0%           83%       0%                    6%                   0%             0%
1 - 2 miles                                                               6%             2%           61%       0%                  30%                    2%             0%
More than 2 miles                                                         1%             1%           85%       0%                  12%                    1%             0%
Grand Total                                                               8%             1%          77%        0%                  12%                    1%             0%


                                                                                                                                              Safe Routes to School Report | B- 19
Appendix B


Weekly Miles Traveled by Mode

                          700

                          600

                          500

                          400
   Miles




                          300

                          200

                          100

                            0
                                      Walks            Bikes           Driven           School Bus       Carpools        City Bus/           Other
                                                                                                                          Transit
                                                                                           Mode

                                                                                                                                City Bus/
                                                       Walks        Bikes           Driven      School Bus    Carpools           Transit         Other
Morning Trips                                                  21              7          492             0            40                    0              0
Afternoon Trips                                                23              8          410             1          105                    14              0
All Trips                                                      44           15            902             1          145                    14        1,122
Percent of Total Mileage                                       4%           1%            80%            0%          13%                    1%             0%
Note:This analysis uses the mode frequency by respondent and assumes the median of the distance from school categories or
the respondent-provided distance if greater than two miles.


How strongly do you agree with the following statement?
a. n=45 b. n=45 c. n=45 d. n=45

                                                                     Walking and bicycling is...
                          50

                          45

                          40

                          35                                                                                                         Strongly Disagree
    Number of Responses




                          30                                                                                                         Somewhat Disagree
                          25
                                                                                                                                     Neutral/ No Opinion
                          20

                          15                                                                                                         Somewhat Agree

                          10
                                                                                                                                     Strongly Agree
                           5

                           0
                                ...fun for my child(ren) ...important for my       ...encouraged by my ...something I wish we
                                                         child(ren)'s health          child(ren)'s school   did more often




B-20 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                        Survey and Tally Results by School


Have you or your child(ren) participated in the following Safe Routes to School events/programs?
 35%
                                                  31%
 30%

 25%

 20%

 15%

 10%

                               4%                                    4%                                                4%
  5%
                                                                                     2%
             0%                                                                                       0%
  0%
         Safe Routes      Traffic Safety     Walk and Roll    Bicycle Rodeos    511 SchoolPool   Walking School      Other
          Classroom        Assemblies        to School Days                                           Bus/
           Lessons                                                                                Bike Train


For any events/programs you answered "yes" for in the previous question, did your child(ren) walk, bike, or
carpool more often after participating?
Note: Includes responses from respondents who previously indicated that they had participated in the specific program.


  Walking School Bus/
      Bike Train

                                                                                                             Walked/biked/
       511 SchoolPool                                         100%
                                                                                                             carpooled/took
                                                                                                             transit more
       Bicycle Rodeos                                         100%

       Walk and Roll                                                                                         Did not walk/bike/
       to School Days
                                 29%                                      71%                                carpool/take transit
                                                                                                             more
        Traffic Safety
         Assemblies
                                                              100%

       Safe Routes
    Classroom Lessons

                         0%            20%              40%           60%            80%            100%

                                                Walked/biked/ carpooled/took               Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                        transit more                                transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                     0                                              0
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                         1                                              0
Walk and Rollto School Days                                       4                                             10
Bicycle Rodeos                                                    0                                              2
511 SchoolPool                                                    0                                              2
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                     0                                              0
Other                                                             2




                                                                                                       Safe Routes to School Report | B- 21
Appendix B


If you have participated in the Safe Routes program, do you drive yourself or your child(ren) less often for non-
school trips?
n=42

               Walking School Bus/
                   Bike Train

                      511 SchoolPool
                                                                                                            Walked/biked/
                                                                                                            carpooled/took transit
                      Bicycle Rodeos                                                                        more

                      Walk and Roll
                      to School Days
                                                  40%                          60%

                       Traffic Safety
                        Assemblies                                                                          Did not walk/bike/
                                                                                                            carpool/take transit
                      Safe Routes                                                                           more
                   Classroom Lessons

                                        0%        20%         40%        60%         80%        100%

                                                  Walked/biked/ carpooled/took            Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                          transit more                             transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                       0                                           0
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                           0                                           0
Walk and Rollto School Days                                         2                                           3
Bicycle Rodeos                                                      0                                           0
511 SchoolPool                                                      0                                           0
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                       0                                           0

At what grade level would you allow your child(ren) to walk or bike to/from school without an adult?
  60%
                                                              51%
  50%


  40%


  30%


  20%                                        18%

                                                        10%
  10%                                                               8%
                                        5%                                            5%
                     3%
   0%
         Kinder-      1       2          3    4          5     6     7         8      9        10      11         12      I would
         garten                                                                                                          not feel
                                                                                                                       comfortable
                                                                                                                       at any grade




B-22 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                               Survey and Tally Results by School


What concerns limit your child(ren)'s ability to walk or bike to/from school?


                                       Other                         2%

                      Don't know best route                1%

                                 Bad weather                                              6%

        Violence/crime in neighborhood               0%

                           Stranger danger                                                         7%

           Lack of bike parking at school                       2%

                         No crossing guards                                                    6%

                       Unsafe intersections                                                                                10%

                           Lack of bikeways                                                         7%

         Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                        4%

           No adults to walk or bike with                                                     6%

            Too much traffic along route                                                                              9%

             Speeding traffic along route                                                                                  10%

             Child has too much to carry                                            5%

 Child's before or after school activities                                                              7%

           Walking/biking takes too long                                                 6%

               Driving is more convenient                                                     6%

                        Too far from school                                         5%

                                                0%              2%        4%             6%              8%             10%          12%


                                     Yes        Percent                                                           Yes             Percent
Too far from school                        17             5%              Lack of bikeways                                 25           7%
Driving is more convenient                 22             6%              Unsafe intersections                             35          10%
Walking/biking takes too long              20             6%              No crossing guards                               23           6%
Child's before or after school                                            Lack of bike parking at
activities                                 26             7%              school                                              6         2%
Child has too much to carry                17             5%              Stranger danger                                  24           7%
Speeding traffic along route               35             10%             neighborhood                                        1         0%
Too much traffic along route               33             9%              Bad weather                                      21           6%
No adults to walk or bike with             22             6%              Don't know best route                               4         1%
Lack of sidewalks and/or
paths                                      15             4%              Other                                               8         2%




                                                                                                              Safe Routes to School Report | B- 23
Appendix B


Would you allow your child(ren) to walk/bike more often if this concern was addressed?
Chart shows "yes" responses.


              Lack of bike parking at school                 18%

                          No crossing guards                       24%

                        Unsafe intersections                        26%

                            Lack of bikeways                                                  47%

             Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                              29%

              No adults to walk or bike with                                                            54%

               Too much traffic along route                                                                             68%

                Speeding traffic along route                                                        51%

                Child has too much to carry                                                  47%

Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                                                          53%

              Walking/biking takes too long                                                                            67%

                 Driving is more convenient                                                                                 70%

                         Too far from school                                                   49%

                                                 0%   10%   20%         30%        40%       50%              60%      70%        80%


                                                             Yes              No         Not Sure              Total
Too far from school                                                15              11           11                     37
Driving is more convenient                                         7               14           16                     37
Walking/biking takes too long                                      16              13               8                  37
Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                     10              14           13                     37
Child has too much to carry                                        18              11               8                  37
Speeding traffic along route                                       28               5               7                  40
Too much traffic along route                                       26               5               8                  39
No adults to walk or bike with                                     20               9               9                  38
Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                     17              10               9                  36
Lack of bikeways                                                   20               9           10                     39
Unsafe intersections                                               28               6               7                  41
No crossing guards                                                 21               8           10                     39
Lack of bike parking at school                                     10              13           12                     35
Stranger danger                                                    18              10           10                     38
Violence/crime in neighborhood                                     9               14           12                     35
Bad weather                                                        8               15           10                     33
Don't know best route to school                                    6               14           13                     33
Other                                                              2



B-24 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                   Survey and Tally Results by School


I would reduce the number of times I drive my child(ren) to school if...

 25%
                                                                           23%


 20%                                                                                                            19%
                                    17%
                16%
                                                                                           15%
 15%


                                                      10%
 10%



    5%



    0%
         My child wanted to My child wanted to My child wanted to My child knew how Transit/school      It was easier to
          make "greener"       walk/bike to    compete for prizes to walk and bike buses better served coordinate with
              choices         improve their        in contests          safely      my child's school other parents/kids
                                  health




Are you interested in participating in any of the following Safe Routes to School tasks?
7

                                                                                 6                          6
6


5

                                                 4
4


3


2

                   1
1


0
     Volunteer for student events    Organize a neighborhood      Help identify traffic safety Help develop Suggested Routes
            and contests             Walking School Bus or Bike        issues at schools              to School maps
                                               Train




                                                                                                 Safe Routes to School Report | B- 25
Appendix B




This page intentionally left blank.




B-26 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                    Survey and Tally Results by School


Ingrid B. Lacy Middle School Parent Survey Results
Date Collected:                          Spring 2012
Total Surveys Received:                  67

Gender
n= 66                                                     Count        Percent
                                             Male                 38          58%
                                             Female               28          42%


Grade
n=66

   50%
Grades                                                                              45%
   45%
n= 66
                         40%
Percent of Respondents




                         35%                                                                            32%
                         30%
                         25%                                                                23%
                         20%
                         15%
                         10%
                         5%
                         0%
                               Pre   K   1          2     3       4       5           6      7           8     9       10      11      12
                                                                              Grade


Does/do your child(ren)'s school(s) have a Safe Routes to School Program?
n= 65



                                                                         9%


                                                                                                  Yes
                                                                                      17%


                                                                                                  No


                                                                                                  Don't Know
                                                        74%




                                                                                                                   Safe Routes to School Report | B- 27
Appendix B


What is the approximate distance from your home to the school?
n=64

  60%
                                                                                        53%                             Number            Percent
  50%                                                                                                1/4 mile or
                                                                                                     less                            2            3%
  40%                                                                36%                             1/4 - 1/2
                                                                                                     mile                            1            2%
  30%
                                                                                                     1/2 - 1 mile                    4            6%
  20%

                                                                                                     1 -2 miles                      23        36%
  10%                                                  6%
                           3%           2%                                                           More than 2
   0%                                                                                                miles                           34        53%
                       1/4 mile or 1/4 - 1/2 mile 1/2 - 1 mile     1 -2 miles     More than 2
                          less                                                       miles
                                             Distance from School                                    Total                          64        100%


How did your child get TO school?
Mode by day of the week
n=66
                     200
                     180
                                                                                                                          Monday
                     160
                                                                                                                          Tuesday
                     140
   Number of Trips




                                                                                                                          Wednesday
                     120
                                                                                                                          Thursday
                     100
                                                                                                                          Friday
                     80
                     60
                     40
                     20
                       0
                                Walk           Bike         Driven Solo         School Bus      Carpool             City Bus/         Other
                                                                                                                     Transit
                                                                                  Mode

                                                                          Driven                                        City Bus/
Travel to School                               Walk         Bike           Solo         School Bus     Carpool           Transit          Other
Monday                                                 3             0             30            1                19                 13             0
Tuesday                                                0             2             34            0                17                 11             1
Wednesday                                              1             0             35            0                18                 12             0
Thursday                                               2             0             38            0                16                 10             0
Friday                                                 1             0             35            0                16                 14             0
Total trips                                           7              2           172             1                86                60              1
Percent of trips                                      2%            1%            52%           0%               26%               18%            0%




B-28 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                           Survey and Tally Results by School


How did your child get FROM school?
Mode by day of the week
n=66

                      200
                      180
                                                                                                            Monday
                      160
                                                                                                            Tuesday
                      140
    Number of Trips




                                                                                                            Wednesday
                      120
                                                                                                            Thursday
                      100
                                                                                                            Friday
                      80
                      60
                      40
                      20
                        0
                                 Walk   Bike        Driven Solo      School Bus          Carpool       City Bus/         Other
                                                                                                        Transit
                                                                       Mode

                                                                  Driven                                   City Bus/
Travel from school                      Walk        Bike           Solo         School Bus   Carpool        Transit          Other
Monday                                          1           0              38            0           15                 12            0
Tuesday                                         0           1              34            1           14                 15            1
Wednesday                                       2           0              40            0           13                 11            0
Thursday                                        0           0              33            0           16                 16            1
Friday                                          0           0              39            0           13                 12            2
Total trips                                    3           1          184                1          71                 66            4
Percent of trips                               1%          0%         56%               0%          22%                20%           1%


Mode Split TO school                                                            Mode Split FROM school
    City Bus/      Walk, 2% Bike, 1%
     Transit, Other, 0%                                                                      Other, 1% Walk, 1% Bike, 0%
       18%


                                                                                              City Bus/
                                                                                               Transit,
                                                                                                 20%


                                           Driven                                                                      Driven
                            Carpool,      Solo, 52%                                                                   Solo, 56%
                                                                                         Carpool,
                              26%                                                          22%


        School                                                                     School
        Bus, 0%                                                                    Bus, 0%




                                                                                                          Safe Routes to School Report | B- 29
Appendix B


Overall mode split TO and FROM school
Mode by day of the week
                       400

                       350
                                                                                                        Monday
                       300                                                                              Tuesday
                                                                                                        Wednesday
     Number of Trips




                       250
                                                                                                        Thursday
                       200                                                                              Friday

                       150

                       100

                       50

                         0
                             Walk    Bike        Driven Solo     School Bus         Carpool        City Bus/         Other
                                                                                                    Transit
                                                                   Mode

                                                             Driven                                    City Bus/
Travel for all trips                Walk         Bike         Solo         School Bus    Carpool        Transit          Other
Monday                                       4           0            68            1          34                   25            0
Tuesday                                      0           3            68            1          31                   26            2
Wednesday                                    3           0            75            0          31                   23            0
Thursday                                     2           0            71            0          32                   26            1
Friday                                       1           0            74            0          29                   26            2
Total trips                                 10          3         356               2         157                 126            5
Percent of trips                            2%          0%        54%              0%         24%                  19%           1%
Mode by day of the week


Mode split for all trips

                                     City Bus/ Other, 1%       Walk, 2%       Bike, 0%
                                    Transit, 19%




                                                 Carpool,        Driven Solo,
                                                   24%               54%




                                     School Bus, 0%




B-30 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                                              Survey and Tally Results by School


Weekly Trips by Mode and Distance from School
Mode by distance from school
                                            400
                                                                                                                                                            Other
                                            350
           Number of Trips per Week




                                            300
                                                                                                                                                            City Bus/
                                                                                                                                                            Transit
                                            250                                                                                                             Carpools

                                            200                                                                                                             School Bus
                                            150
                                                                                                                                                            Driven
                                            100
                                                                                                                                                            Bikes
                                            50
                                                                                                                                                            Walks
                                              0
                                                  1/4 mile or less    1/4 - 1/2 mile       1/2 - 1 mile         1 - 2 miles        More than 2
                                                                                                                                      miles
                                                                                 Distance from School

                                                                                                                                              City Bus/
                                                                     Walks         Bikes       Driven        School Bus       Carpools         Transit          Other
1/4 mile or less                                                             0             0            20             0                 0                  0             0
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                               0             0            10             0                 0                  0             0
1/2 - 1 mile                                                                 1             0            34             0                 0                  5             0
1 - 2 miles                                                                  7             1        101                0             72                   49              0
More than 2 miles                                                            2             2        171                3             85                   72              5
Grand Total                                                              10                3        336                3            157                 126               5


Mode Split by Distance from School
                          100%


                                      80%
                                                                                                                                                    Other
                                                                                                                                                    City Bus/ Transit
Percent of Mode




                                      60%
                                                                                                                                                    Carpools

                                      40%                                                                                                           School Bus
                                                                                                                                                    Driven
                                      20%                                                                                                           Bikes
                                                                                                                                                    Walks
                                      0%
                                             1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile     1/2 - 1 mile    1 - 2 miles                  More than 2 miles
                                                                            Distance from School

                                                                                                                                              City Bus/
                                                                     Walks         Bikes       Driven School Bus              Carpools         Transit          Other
1/4 mile or less                                                          0%            0%         100%       0%                     0%                 0%               0%
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                            0%            0%         100%       0%                     0%                 0%               0%
1/2 - 1 mile                                                              3%            0%          85%       0%                     0%                13%               0%
1 - 2 miles                                                               3%            0%          44%       0%                   31%                 21%               0%
More than 2 miles                                                         1%            1%          50%       1%                   25%                 21%               1%
Grand Total                                                              2%             0%          53%       0%                   25%                 20%               1%


                                                                                                                                             Safe Routes to School Report | B- 31
Appendix B


Weekly Miles Traveled by Mode

                          400
                          350
                          300
                          250
   Miles




                          200
                          150
                          100
                           50
                            0
                                      Walks            Bikes           Driven           School Bus       Carpools        City Bus/           Other
                                                                                                                          Transit
                                                                                           Mode

                                                                                                                                City Bus/
                                                       Walks        Bikes           Driven      School Bus    Carpools           Transit         Other
Morning Trips                                                  14              6          486            10          275                 191                6
Afternoon Trips                                                 7              5          544             4          222                 183               23
All Trips                                                      20           11          1,029            14          497                 374          1,973
Percent of Total Mileage                                       1%           1%            52%            1%          25%                 19%               1%
Note:This analysis uses the mode frequency by respondent and assumes the median of the distance from school categories or
the respondent-provided distance if greater than two miles.


How strongly do you agree with the following statement?
a. n=45 b. n=44 c. n=44 d. n=42

                                                                     Walking and bicycling is...
                          50

                          45

                          40

                          35                                                                                                         Strongly Disagree
    Number of Responses




                          30                                                                                                         Somewhat Disagree
                          25
                                                                                                                                     Neutral/ No Opinion
                          20

                          15                                                                                                         Somewhat Agree

                          10
                                                                                                                                     Strongly Agree
                           5

                           0
                                ...fun for my child(ren) ...important for my       ...encouraged by my ...something I wish we
                                                         child(ren)'s health          child(ren)'s school   did more often




B-32 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                      Survey and Tally Results by School


Have you or your child(ren) participated in the following Safe Routes to School events/programs?
 10%
                                                  9%                                                9%
  9%
  8%
  7%
  6%
  5%         5%                5%                                   4%
  4%
                                                                                                                     3%
  3%
  2%
  1%
                                                                                   0%
  0%
         Safe Routes      Traffic Safety    Walk and Roll    Bicycle Rodeos   511 SchoolPool   Walking School      Other
          Classroom        Assemblies       to School Days                                          Bus/
           Lessons                                                                              Bike Train


For any events/programs you answered "yes" for in the previous question, did your child(ren) walk, bike, or
carpool more often after participating?
Note: Includes responses from respondents who previously indicated that they had participated in the specific program.


  Walking School Bus/
      Bike Train
                                    33%                                    67%

                                                                                                           Walked/biked/
       511 SchoolPool                                        100%
                                                                                                           carpooled/took
                                                                                                           transit more
       Bicycle Rodeos                                        100%

       Walk and Roll                                                                                       Did not walk/bike/
       to School Days
                                           50%                                   50%                       carpool/take transit
                                                                                                           more
        Traffic Safety
         Assemblies

       Safe Routes
    Classroom Lessons
                                                             100%

                         0%           20%              40%           60%           80%            100%

                                                 Walked/biked/ carpooled/took            Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                         transit more                             transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                      0                                           2
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                          0                                           0
Walk and Rollto School Days                                        2                                           2
Bicycle Rodeos                                                     0                                           2
511 SchoolPool                                                     0                                           2
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                      1                                           2
Other                                                              1




                                                                                                     Safe Routes to School Report | B- 33
Appendix B


If you have participated in the Safe Routes program, do you drive yourself or your child(ren) less often for non-
school trips?
n=38

               Walking School Bus/
                   Bike Train
                                                                   100%

                      511 SchoolPool
                                                                                                              Walked/biked/
                                                                                                              carpooled/took transit
                      Bicycle Rodeos                               100%                                       more

                      Walk and Roll
                      to School Days

                       Traffic Safety
                        Assemblies                                                                            Did not walk/bike/
                                                                                                              carpool/take transit
                      Safe Routes                                                                             more
                   Classroom Lessons
                                                                   100%

                                        0%       20%         40%          60%         80%         100%

                                                 Walked/biked/ carpooled/took               Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                         transit more                                transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                      0                                              1
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                          0                                              0
Walk and Rollto School Days                                        0                                              0
Bicycle Rodeos                                                     0                                              1
511 SchoolPool                                                     0                                              0
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                      0                                              1

At what grade level would you allow your child(ren) to walk or bike to/from school without an adult?
  25%                                                        24%


  20%                                                                           18%    18%


  15%

                                                       11%           11%                        11%
  10%

                                             5%
   5%
                                        3%


   0%
         Kinder-      1       2          3   4          5     6       7          8      9        10      11         12      I would
         garten                                                                                                            not feel
                                                                                                                         comfortable
                                                                                                                         at any grade




B-34 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                              Survey and Tally Results by School


What concerns limit your child(ren)'s ability to walk or bike to/from school?


                                       Other               1%

                      Don't know best route                 1%

                                 Bad weather                                                        6%

        Violence/crime in neighborhood                               3%

                           Stranger danger                                                                         7%

           Lack of bike parking at school                                      4%

                         No crossing guards                                                         6%

                       Unsafe intersections                                                                    7%

                           Lack of bikeways                                                               7%

         Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                                          6%

           No adults to walk or bike with                                                5%

            Too much traffic along route                                                                      7%

             Speeding traffic along route                                                                               8%

             Child has too much to carry                                                                                8%

 Child's before or after school activities                                                               6%

           Walking/biking takes too long                                                                 6%

               Driving is more convenient                                           4%

                        Too far from school                                                                                       9%

                                                0%   1%         2%   3%        4%        5%      6%       7%        8%        9%       10%


                                     Yes        Percent                                                            Yes             Percent
Too far from school                        39         9%                  Lack of bikeways                                   29          7%
Driving is more convenient                 18         4%                  Unsafe intersections                               31          7%
Walking/biking takes too long              28         6%                  No crossing guards                                 26          6%
Child's before or after school                                            Lack of bike parking at
activities                                 28         6%                  school                                             16          4%
Child has too much to carry                34         8%                  Stranger danger                                    32          7%
Speeding traffic along route               34         8%                  neighborhood                                       11          3%
Too much traffic along route               30         7%                  Bad weather                                        26          6%
No adults to walk or bike with             21         5%                  Don't know best route                              6           1%
Lack of sidewalks and/or
paths                                      25         6%                  Other                                              5           1%




                                                                                                          Safe Routes to School Report | B- 35
Appendix B


Would you allow your child(ren) to walk/bike more often if this concern was addressed?
Chart shows "yes" responses.


              Lack of bike parking at school                                                45%

                          No crossing guards                                                 47%

                        Unsafe intersections                                                 47%

                            Lack of bikeways                                                                  63%

             Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                                  47%

              No adults to walk or bike with                                                              59%

               Too much traffic along route                                                                      64%

                Speeding traffic along route                                                                                  74%

                Child has too much to carry                                                                               73%

Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                                                            59%

              Walking/biking takes too long                                                                             69%

                 Driving is more convenient                                                                       67%

                         Too far from school                                                                                  74%

                                                 0%   10%   20%         30%        40%       50%        60%       70%           80%


                                                             Yes              No         Not Sure        Total
Too far from school                                                23               8               9              40
Driving is more convenient                                         15               9             10               34
Walking/biking takes too long                                      23               8               6              37
Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                     22              10               4              36
Child has too much to carry                                        29               7               3              39
Speeding traffic along route                                       26              10               3              39
Too much traffic along route                                       27               9               3              39
No adults to walk or bike with                                     22              13               2              37
Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                     27               8               2              37
Lack of bikeways                                                   28               7               3              38
Unsafe intersections                                               25              10               4              39
No crossing guards                                                 22              10               5              37
Lack of bike parking at school                                     16              11               7              34
Stranger danger                                                    24              10               4              38
Violence/crime in neighborhood                                     17              14               5              36
Bad weather                                                        17              14               5              36
Don't know best route to school                                    14              13               4              31
Other                                                              4



B-36 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                   Survey and Tally Results by School


I would reduce the number of times I drive my child(ren) to school if...

 35%
                                                                                           31%
 30%


 25%
                                                                                                                20%
 20%
                                    17%

 15%
                11%
                                                      10%                  10%
 10%


    5%


    0%
         My child wanted to My child wanted to My child wanted to My child knew how Transit/school      It was easier to
          make "greener"       walk/bike to    compete for prizes to walk and bike buses better served coordinate with
              choices         improve their        in contests          safely      my child's school other parents/kids
                                  health




Are you interested in participating in any of the following Safe Routes to School tasks?
8
                                                 7
7
                                                                                 6
6

5

4
                   3                                                                                        3
3

2

1

0
     Volunteer for student events    Organize a neighborhood      Help identify traffic safety Help develop Suggested Routes
            and contests             Walking School Bus or Bike        issues at schools              to School maps
                                               Train




                                                                                                 Safe Routes to School Report | B- 37
Appendix B




This page intentionally left blank.




B-38 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                                Survey and Tally Results by School


Ocean Shore School Parent Survey Results
Date Collected:                             Spring 2012
Total Surveys Received:                     33

Gender
n= 32                                                             Count         Percent
                                                 Male                     16           50%
                                                 Female                   16           50%


Grade
n=31

   35%
Grades                                     32%
n= 31
   30%
Percent of Respondents




                         25%

                         20%
                                                                                             16%
                         15%         13%                                  13%

                         10%
                                                    6%            6%              6%                     6%
                         5%

                         0%
                               Pre    K     1           2         3        4       5           6         7          8      9       10      11      12
                                                                                       Grade


Does/do your child(ren)'s school(s) have a Safe Routes to School Program?
n= 31




                                                                                          23%
                                                                                                              Yes


                                                                                                              No
                                                                                                   13%
                                                            65%
                                                                                                              Don't Know




                                                                                                                               Safe Routes to School Report | B- 39
Appendix B


What is the approximate distance from your home to the school?
n=32

  40%                                                                                   38%
                                                                                                                        Number            Percent
  35%                                                                                                1/4 mile or
  30%                                                                                                less                             5        16%
                                                                                                     1/4 - 1/2
  25%                                                                22%                             mile                             6        19%
                                        19%
  20%
                           16%
  15%                                                                                                1/2 - 1 mile                     2           6%

  10%                                                  6%                                            1 -2 miles                       7        22%
   5%                                                                                                More than 2
   0%                                                                                                miles                           12        38%
                       1/4 mile or 1/4 - 1/2 mile 1/2 - 1 mile     1 -2 miles     More than 2
                          less                                                       miles
                                              Distance from School                                   Total                          32        100%


How did your child get TO school?
Mode by day of the week
n=32
                     120

                     100                                                                                                  Monday
                                                                                                                          Tuesday
                     80
   Number of Trips




                                                                                                                          Wednesday
                                                                                                                          Thursday
                     60
                                                                                                                          Friday

                     40

                     20

                       0
                                 Walk          Bike         Driven Solo         School Bus      Carpool             City Bus/         Other
                                                                                                                     Transit
                                                                                  Mode

                                                                          Driven                                        City Bus/
Travel to School                               Walk         Bike           Solo         School Bus     Carpool           Transit          Other
Monday                                                 3             0             22            0                  7                 0             0
Tuesday                                                1             0             21            0                  8                 0             2
Wednesday                                              1             0             21            0                  8                 0             2
Thursday                                               1             0             21            0                  8                 0             2
Friday                                                 3             0             22            0                  5                 0             2
Total trips                                           9              0           107             0                36                 0              8
Percent of trips                                      6%            0%            67%           0%               23%                 0%           5%




B-40 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                           Survey and Tally Results by School


How did your child get FROM school?
Mode by day of the week
n=32

                      140

                      120                                                                                   Monday

                                                                                                            Tuesday
                      100
    Number of Trips




                                                                                                            Wednesday
                      80                                                                                    Thursday

                      60                                                                                    Friday


                      40

                      20

                        0
                            Walk    Bike        Driven Solo      School Bus           Carpool          City Bus/          Other
                                                                                                        Transit
                                                                   Mode

                                                              Driven                                       City Bus/
Travel from school                 Walk         Bike           Solo         School Bus      Carpool         Transit           Other
Monday                                      0           0              22              0              8                 0              2
Tuesday                                     0           0              27              0              3                 0              2
Wednesday                                   0           0              24              0              6                 0              2
Thursday                                    2           0              26              0              3                 0              0
Friday                                      2           0              29              0              1                 0              0
Total trips                                4           0          128                 0           21                    0             6
Percent of trips                           3%          0%          81%                0%         13%                   0%             4%


Mode Split TO school                                                        Mode Split FROM school
         City Bus/ Other, Walk, 6%                                              City Bus/        Other, 4%         Walk, 3%
          Transit, 5%              Bike, 0%
                                                                                 Transit,
            0%                                                                     0%                                   Bike, 0%
Carpool,
  23%
                                                                                            Carpool,
                                                                            School            13%
                                                                            Bus, 0%




School
Bus, 0%                             Driven
                                                                                                               Driven
                                   Solo, 67%
                                                                                                              Solo, 81%




                                                                                                          Safe Routes to School Report | B- 41
Appendix B


Overall mode split TO and FROM school
Mode by day of the week
                       250


                                                                                                              Monday
                       200
                                                                                                              Tuesday
                                                                                                              Wednesday
     Number of Trips




                       150
                                                                                                              Thursday
                                                                                                              Friday
                       100


                       50


                         0
                             Walk         Bike        Driven Solo     School Bus          Carpool        City Bus/        Other
                                                                                                          Transit
                                                                        Mode

                                                                  Driven                                     City Bus/
Travel for all trips                     Walk         Bike         Solo         School Bus     Carpool        Transit         Other
Monday                                            3           0            44              0         15                   0            2
Tuesday                                           1           0            48              0         11                   0            4
Wednesday                                         1           0            45              0         14                   0            4
Thursday                                          3           0            47              0         11                   0            2
Friday                                            5           0            51              0             6                0            2
Total trips                                      13          0         235                0          57                   0           14
Percent of trips                                 4%          0%        74%                0%        18%                  0%           4%
Mode by day of the week


Mode split for all trips
                                                   City Bus/ Other, 4% Walk, 4%
                                                  Transit, 0%
                                                                            Bike, 0%




                                                       Carpool, 18%
                                School Bus, 0%


                                                                           Driven Solo,
                                                                               74%




B-42 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                                              Survey and Tally Results by School


Weekly Trips by Mode and Distance from School
Mode by distance from school
                                            140
                                                                                                                                                            Other
                                            120
           Number of Trips per Week




                                                                                                                                                            City Bus/
                                            100                                                                                                             Transit
                                                                                                                                                            Carpools
                                            80
                                                                                                                                                            School Bus
                                            60
                                                                                                                                                            Driven
                                            40
                                                                                                                                                            Bikes
                                            20
                                                                                                                                                            Walks
                                              0
                                                  1/4 mile or less    1/4 - 1/2 mile       1/2 - 1 mile         1 - 2 miles        More than 2
                                                                                                                                      miles
                                                                                 Distance from School

                                                                                                                                              City Bus/
                                                                     Walks         Bikes       Driven        School Bus       Carpools         Transit          Other
1/4 mile or less                                                             4             0            44             0                 2                  0             0
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                               9             0            46             0                 4                  0             0
1/2 - 1 mile                                                                 0             0            20             0                 0                  0             0
1 - 2 miles                                                                  0             0            54             0             16                     0             0
More than 2 miles                                                            0             0            71             0             35                     0            14
Grand Total                                                              13                0        235                0             57                     0            14


Mode Split by Distance from School
                          100%


                                      80%
                                                                                                                                                    Other
                                                                                                                                                    City Bus/ Transit
Percent of Mode




                                      60%
                                                                                                                                                    Carpools

                                      40%                                                                                                           School Bus
                                                                                                                                                    Driven
                                      20%                                                                                                           Bikes
                                                                                                                                                    Walks
                                      0%
                                             1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile     1/2 - 1 mile    1 - 2 miles                  More than 2 miles
                                                                            Distance from School

                                                                                                                                              City Bus/
                                                                     Walks         Bikes       Driven School Bus              Carpools         Transit          Other
1/4 mile or less                                                          8%            0%          88%       0%                     4%                   0%             0%
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                           15%            0%          78%       0%                     7%                   0%             0%
1/2 - 1 mile                                                              0%            0%         100%       0%                     0%                   0%             0%
1 - 2 miles                                                               0%            0%          77%       0%                   23%                    0%             0%
More than 2 miles                                                         0%            0%          59%       0%                   29%                    0%            12%
Grand Total                                                               4%            0%          74%       0%                   18%                    0%             4%


                                                                                                                                             Safe Routes to School Report | B- 43
Appendix B


Weekly Miles Traveled by Mode

                          250

                          200

                          150
   Miles




                          100

                           50

                            0
                                      Walks            Bikes           Driven           School Bus       Carpools        City Bus/           Other
                                                                                                                          Transit
                                                                                           Mode

                                                                                                                                City Bus/
                                                       Walks        Bikes           Driven      School Bus    Carpools           Transit         Other
Morning Trips                                                   3              0          184             0          119                     0             24
Afternoon Trips                                                 1              0          264             0            48                    0             18
All Trips                                                      4               0          448             0          167                    0            661
Percent of Total Mileage                                       1%           0%            68%            0%          25%                    0%             6%
Note:This analysis uses the mode frequency by respondent and assumes the median of the distance from school categories or
the respondent-provided distance if greater than two miles.


How strongly do you agree with the following statement?
a. n=18 b. n=18 c. n=18 d. n=18

                                                                     Walking and bicycling is...
                          20

                          18

                          16

                          14                                                                                                         Strongly Disagree
    Number of Responses




                          12                                                                                                         Somewhat Disagree
                          10
                                                                                                                                     Neutral/ No Opinion
                           8

                           6                                                                                                         Somewhat Agree

                           4
                                                                                                                                     Strongly Agree
                           2

                           0
                                ...fun for my child(ren) ...important for my       ...encouraged by my ...something I wish we
                                                         child(ren)'s health          child(ren)'s school   did more often




B-44 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                      Survey and Tally Results by School


Have you or your child(ren) participated in the following Safe Routes to School events/programs?
 35%                                             33%

 30%

 25%

 20%

 15%

 10%
                               6%                                   6%                              6%
  5%                                                                                                                 3%
             0%                                                                    0%
  0%
         Safe Routes      Traffic Safety    Walk and Roll    Bicycle Rodeos   511 SchoolPool   Walking School      Other
          Classroom        Assemblies       to School Days                                          Bus/
           Lessons                                                                              Bike Train


For any events/programs you answered "yes" for in the previous question, did your child(ren) walk, bike, or
carpool more often after participating?
Note: Includes responses from respondents who previously indicated that they had participated in the specific program.


  Walking School Bus/
      Bike Train

                                                                                                           Walked/biked/
       511 SchoolPool                                        100%
                                                                                                           carpooled/took
                                                                                                           transit more
       Bicycle Rodeos                                        100%

       Walk and Roll                                                                                       Did not walk/bike/
       to School Days
                                                             100%                                          carpool/take transit
                                                                                                           more
        Traffic Safety
         Assemblies
                                                             100%

       Safe Routes
    Classroom Lessons

                         0%           20%              40%           60%           80%            100%

                                               Walked/biked/ carpooled/took              Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                       transit more                               transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                    0                                             0
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                        0                                             1
Walk and Rollto School Days                                      0                                             4
Bicycle Rodeos                                                   0                                             1
511 SchoolPool                                                   0                                             1
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                    0                                             0
Other                                                            0




                                                                                                     Safe Routes to School Report | B- 45
Appendix B


If you have participated in the Safe Routes program, do you drive yourself or your child(ren) less often for non-
school trips?
n=16

               Walking School Bus/
                   Bike Train

                      511 SchoolPool                               100%
                                                                                                            Walked/biked/
                                                                                                            carpooled/took transit
                      Bicycle Rodeos                               100%                                     more

                      Walk and Roll
                      to School Days
                                                                   100%

                       Traffic Safety
                        Assemblies                                                                          Did not walk/bike/
                                                                                                            carpool/take transit
                      Safe Routes                                                                           more
                   Classroom Lessons

                                        0%       20%         40%          60%        80%        100%

                                                 Walked/biked/ carpooled/took             Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                         transit more                              transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                      0                                            0
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                          0                                            0
Walk and Rollto School Days                                        1                                            0
Bicycle Rodeos                                                     1                                            0
511 SchoolPool                                                     0                                            1
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                      0                                            0

At what grade level would you allow your child(ren) to walk or bike to/from school without an adult?
  30%
                                                             27%

  25%

                                                       20%           20%
  20%


  15%


  10%
                     7%                 7%                                      7%             7%                7%

   5%


   0%
         Kinder-      1       2          3   4          5     6       7         8     9        10      11         12      I would
         garten                                                                                                          not feel
                                                                                                                       comfortable
                                                                                                                       at any grade




B-46 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                    Survey and Tally Results by School


What concerns limit your child(ren)'s ability to walk or bike to/from school?


                                       Other                   2%

                      Don't know best route          1%

                                 Bad weather                                      6%

        Violence/crime in neighborhood                    1%

                           Stranger danger                                                    7%

           Lack of bike parking at school                      2%

                         No crossing guards                                                                   10%

                       Unsafe intersections                                                                            10%

                           Lack of bikeways                                                   7%

         Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                              4%

           No adults to walk or bike with                                              6%

            Too much traffic along route                                                              9%

             Speeding traffic along route                                                                     10%

             Child has too much to carry                                  4%

 Child's before or after school activities                                4%

           Walking/biking takes too long                                  4%

               Driving is more convenient                                              6%

                        Too far from school                                            6%

                                                0%         2%       4%            6%          8%             10%             12%


                                     Yes        Percent                                                Yes              Percent
Too far from school                        10         6%            Lack of bikeways                           12              7%
Driving is more convenient                 10         6%            Unsafe intersections                       17              10%
Walking/biking takes too long              7          4%            No crossing guards                         16              10%
Child's before or after school                                      Lack of bike parking at
activities                                 7          4%            school                                         3           2%
Child has too much to carry                7          4%            Stranger danger                            12              7%
Speeding traffic along route               16        10%            neighborhood                                   2           1%
Too much traffic along route               14         9%            Bad weather                                    9           6%
No adults to walk or bike with             10         6%            Don't know best route                          1           1%
Lack of sidewalks and/or
paths                                      6          4%            Other                                          3           2%




                                                                                                   Safe Routes to School Report | B- 47
Appendix B


Would you allow your child(ren) to walk/bike more often if this concern was addressed?
Chart shows "yes" responses.


              Lack of bike parking at school                14%

                          No crossing guards                14%

                        Unsafe intersections                      21%

                            Lack of bikeways                                                               69%

             Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                    38%

              No adults to walk or bike with                                                                                  88%

               Too much traffic along route                                                                                   87%

                Speeding traffic along route                                                              67%

                Child has too much to carry                                    38%

Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                                             53%

              Walking/biking takes too long                                                                             81%

                 Driving is more convenient                                                                              83%

                         Too far from school                                  36%

                                                 0%   10%   20%     30%       40%    50%     60%      70%        80%      90%       100%


                                                                   Yes          No         Not Sure             Total
Too far from school                                                       6           8               2                  16
Driving is more convenient                                                5           8               2                  15
Walking/biking takes too long                                             6           8               2                  16
Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                            5           8               1                  14
Child has too much to carry                                               5           8               1                  14
Speeding traffic along route                                             15           3               0                  18
Too much traffic along route                                             13           3               0                  16
No adults to walk or bike with                                            9           8               0                  17
Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                            5           7               1                  13
Lack of bikeways                                                         10           5               0                  15
Unsafe intersections                                                     13           2               0                  15
No crossing guards                                                       14           2               0                  16
Lack of bike parking at school                                            5           7               1                  13
Stranger danger                                                          11           5               0                  16
Violence/crime in neighborhood                                            3           8               3                  14
Bad weather                                                               2          10               2                  14
Don't know best route to school                                           2          10               2                  14
Other                                                                     2



B-48 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                   Survey and Tally Results by School


I would reduce the number of times I drive my child(ren) to school if...

 35%
                                                                           32%

 30%


 25%
                                                                                           21%                  21%
 20%


 15%
                                    12%

 10%            9%
                                                       6%
    5%


    0%
         My child wanted to My child wanted to My child wanted to My child knew how Transit/school      It was easier to
          make "greener"       walk/bike to    compete for prizes to walk and bike buses better served coordinate with
              choices         improve their        in contests          safely      my child's school other parents/kids
                                  health




Are you interested in participating in any of the following Safe Routes to School tasks?
6

                                                                                 5
5


4


3

                                                 2
2

                     1                                                                                      1
1


0
     Volunteer for student events    Organize a neighborhood      Help identify traffic safety Help develop Suggested Routes
            and contests             Walking School Bus or Bike        issues at schools              to School maps
                                               Train




                                                                                                 Safe Routes to School Report | B- 49
Appendix B




This page intentionally left blank.




B-50 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                       Survey and Tally Results by School


Ortega Elementary Parent Survey Results
Date Collected:                             Spring 2012
Total Surveys Received:                     51

Gender
n= 50                                                        Count         Percent
                                                 Male                23               46%
                                                 Female              27               54%


Grade
n=50

   25%
Grades
                                                    22%
n= 50
                                           20%
                         20%         18%
Percent of Respondents




                                                                     16%
                         15%                                                    14%

                                                            10%
                         10%


                         5%


                         0%
                               Pre    K     1           2    3        4          5           6   7         8      9       10      11      12
                                                                                     Grade


Does/do your child(ren)'s school(s) have a Safe Routes to School Program?
n= 49


                                                                           4%

                                                                                        16%
                                                                                                     Yes


                                                                                                     No


                                                                                                     Don't Know

                                                            80%




                                                                                                                      Safe Routes to School Report | B- 51
Appendix B


What is the approximate distance from your home to the school?
n=51

  35%                                                                33%
                                                                                                                        Number            Percent
  30%                                                 27%                                            1/4 mile or
                                                                                                     less                             6        12%
  25%
                                                                                        22%          1/4 - 1/2
  20%                                                                                                mile                             3           6%

  15%                      12%                                                                       1/2 - 1 mile                    14        27%
  10%
                                        6%                                                           1 -2 miles                      17        33%
   5%
                                                                                                     More than 2
   0%                                                                                                miles                           11        22%
                       1/4 mile or 1/4 - 1/2 mile 1/2 - 1 mile     1 -2 miles     More than 2
                          less                                                       miles
                                             Distance from School                                    Total                          51        100%


How did your child get TO school?
Mode by day of the week
n=49
                     200
                     180
                                                                                                                          Monday
                     160
                                                                                                                          Tuesday
                     140
   Number of Trips




                                                                                                                          Wednesday
                     120
                                                                                                                          Thursday
                     100
                                                                                                                          Friday
                     80
                     60
                     40
                     20
                       0
                                 Walk          Bike         Driven Solo         School Bus      Carpool             City Bus/         Other
                                                                                                                     Transit
                                                                                  Mode

                                                                          Driven                                        City Bus/
Travel to School                               Walk         Bike           Solo         School Bus     Carpool           Transit          Other
Monday                                                 4             0             35            0                10                  0             0
Tuesday                                                3             0             35            0                11                  0             0
Wednesday                                              3             0             37            0                  9                 0             0
Thursday                                               3             0             37            0                  9                 0             0
Friday                                                 4             0             37            0                  8                 0             0
Total trips                                           17             0           181             0                47                 0              0
Percent of trips                                      7%            0%            74%           0%               19%                 0%           0%




B-52 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                     Survey and Tally Results by School


How did your child get FROM school?
Mode by day of the week
n=50

                      200
                      180
                                                                                                                      Monday
                      160
                                                                                                                      Tuesday
                      140
    Number of Trips




                                                                                                                      Wednesday
                      120
                                                                                                                      Thursday
                      100
                                                                                                                      Friday
                      80
                      60
                      40
                      20
                        0
                            Walk           Bike        Driven Solo      School Bus           Carpool          City Bus/            Other
                                                                                                               Transit
                                                                          Mode

                                                                     Driven                                          City Bus/
Travel from school                     Walk            Bike           Solo         School Bus      Carpool            Transit          Other
Monday                                             7           0              38              1               3                   1             0
Tuesday                                            5           0              38              0               7                   0             0
Wednesday                                          5           0              35              0               9                   1             0
Thursday                                           4           0              40              0               4                   2             0
Friday                                             6           0              37              1               5                   1             0
Total trips                                       27          0          188                 2            28                      5            0
Percent of trips                              11%             0%          75%                1%          11%                     2%            0%


Mode Split TO school                                                               Mode Split FROM school
            City Bus/                                                                             City Bus/
 Carpool,             Other,
             Transit,                             Bike, 0%                                         Transit,
   19%                  0%                                                                                        Other, 0%
                0%                                                                                   2%
                                   Walk,                                                                                        Bike, 0%
                                                                                   School                          Walk,
                                    7%                                                            Carpool,          11%
 School                                                                            Bus, 1%
 Bus, 0%                                                                                            11%




                                     Driven                                                                    Driven
                                    Solo, 74%                                                                 Solo, 75%




                                                                                                                   Safe Routes to School Report | B- 53
Appendix B


Overall mode split TO and FROM school
Mode by day of the week
                       400

                       350
                                                                                                              Monday
                       300                                                                                    Tuesday
                                                                                                              Wednesday
     Number of Trips




                       250
                                                                                                              Thursday
                       200                                                                                    Friday

                       150

                       100

                       50

                         0
                             Walk          Bike        Driven Solo       School Bus       Carpool        City Bus/        Other
                                                                                                          Transit
                                                                           Mode

                                                                   Driven                                    City Bus/
Travel for all trips                      Walk         Bike         Solo         School Bus    Carpool        Transit         Other
Monday                                            11           0            73             1         13                   1            0
Tuesday                                            8           0            73             0         18                   0            0
Wednesday                                          8           0            72             0         18                   1            0
Thursday                                           7           0            77             0         13                   2            0
Friday                                            10           0            74             1         13                   1            0
Total trips                                       44           0          369             2          75                   5           0
Percent of trips                                  9%          0%          75%             0%        15%                  1%           0%
Mode by day of the week


Mode split for all trips

                                                       City Bus/
                                                                         Other, 0%
                                                        Transit,
                                                                                  Bike, 0%
                                                          1%
                                                                          Walk,
                                                              Carpool,     9%
                                    School Bus, 0%
                                                                15%




                                                                           Driven Solo,
                                                                               75%




B-54 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                                               Survey and Tally Results by School


Weekly Trips by Mode and Distance from School
Mode by distance from school
                                            180
                                                                                                                                                             Other
                                            160
           Number of Trips per Week




                                            140                                                                                                              City Bus/
                                                                                                                                                             Transit
                                            120
                                                                                                                                                             Carpools
                                            100
                                                                                                                                                             School Bus
                                            80
                                            60                                                                                                               Driven
                                            40                                                                                                               Bikes
                                            20
                                                                                                                                                             Walks
                                              0
                                                  1/4 mile or less    1/4 - 1/2 mile        1/2 - 1 mile         1 - 2 miles        More than 2
                                                                                                                                       miles
                                                                                  Distance from School

                                                                                                                                               City Bus/
                                                                     Walks          Bikes       Driven        School Bus       Carpools         Transit          Other
1/4 mile or less                                                             20             0            40             0                 0                  0             0
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                               0              0            24             0                 6                  0             0
1/2 - 1 mile                                                                 24             0            72             2             34                     3             0
1 - 2 miles                                                                  0              0        140                0             28                     2             0
More than 2 miles                                                             0             0            93             0                 7                  0             0
Grand Total                                                              44                 0        369                2             75                     5             0


Mode Split by Distance from School
                          100%


                                      80%
                                                                                                                                                     Other
                                                                                                                                                     City Bus/ Transit
Percent of Mode




                                      60%
                                                                                                                                                     Carpools

                                      40%                                                                                                            School Bus
                                                                                                                                                     Driven
                                      20%                                                                                                            Bikes
                                                                                                                                                     Walks
                                      0%
                                             1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile     1/2 - 1 mile    1 - 2 miles                   More than 2 miles
                                                                            Distance from School

                                                                                                                                               City Bus/
                                                                     Walks          Bikes       Driven School Bus              Carpools         Transit          Other
1/4 mile or less                                                         33%             0%          67%       0%                     0%                   0%             0%
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                            0%             0%          80%       0%                   20%                    0%             0%
1/2 - 1 mile                                                             18%             0%          53%       1%                   25%                    2%             0%
1 - 2 miles                                                               0%             0%          82%       0%                   16%                    1%             0%
More than 2 miles                                                         0%             0%          93%       0%                     7%                   0%             0%
Grand Total                                                               9%             0%         75%        0%                   15%                    1%             0%


                                                                                                                                              Safe Routes to School Report | B- 55
Appendix B


Weekly Miles Traveled by Mode

                          400
                          350
                          300
                          250
   Miles




                          200
                          150
                          100
                           50
                            0
                                      Walks            Bikes           Driven           School Bus       Carpools        City Bus/           Other
                                                                                                                          Transit
                                                                                           Mode

                                                                                                                                City Bus/
                                                       Walks        Bikes           Driven      School Bus    Carpools           Transit         Other
Morning Trips                                                   6              0          416             0            96                    0              0
Afternoon Trips                                                13              0          469             1            33                    5              0
All Trips                                                      20              0          885             1          128                    5         1,040
Percent of Total Mileage                                       2%           0%            85%            0%          12%                    0%             0%
Note:This analysis uses the mode frequency by respondent and assumes the median of the distance from school categories or
the respondent-provided distance if greater than two miles.


How strongly do you agree with the following statement?
a. n=28 b. n=28 c. n=28 d. n=28

                                                                     Walking and bicycling is...
                          30


                          25

                                                                                                                                     Strongly Disagree
    Number of Responses




                          20
                                                                                                                                     Somewhat Disagree
                          15
                                                                                                                                     Neutral/ No Opinion

                          10
                                                                                                                                     Somewhat Agree


                           5                                                                                                         Strongly Agree


                           0
                                ...fun for my child(ren) ...important for my       ...encouraged by my ...something I wish we
                                                         child(ren)'s health          child(ren)'s school   did more often




B-56 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                      Survey and Tally Results by School


Have you or your child(ren) participated in the following Safe Routes to School events/programs?
 12%                                             11%

 10%


  8%


  6%

                                                                                                                     4%
  4%


  2%

             0%                0%                                   0%             0%               0%
  0%
         Safe Routes      Traffic Safety    Walk and Roll    Bicycle Rodeos   511 SchoolPool   Walking School      Other
          Classroom        Assemblies       to School Days                                          Bus/
           Lessons                                                                              Bike Train


For any events/programs you answered "yes" for in the previous question, did your child(ren) walk, bike, or
carpool more often after participating?
Note: Includes responses from respondents who previously indicated that they had participated in the specific program.


  Walking School Bus/
      Bike Train

                                                                                                           Walked/biked/
       511 SchoolPool
                                                                                                           carpooled/took
                                                                                                           transit more
       Bicycle Rodeos

       Walk and Roll                                                                                       Did not walk/bike/
       to School Days
                                                             100%                                          carpool/take transit
                                                                                                           more
        Traffic Safety
         Assemblies

       Safe Routes
    Classroom Lessons

                         0%           20%              40%           60%           80%            100%

                                               Walked/biked/ carpooled/took              Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                       transit more                               transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                    0                                             0
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                        0                                             0
Walk and Rollto School Days                                      0                                             1
Bicycle Rodeos                                                   0                                             0
511 SchoolPool                                                   0                                             0
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                    0                                             0
Other                                                            1




                                                                                                     Safe Routes to School Report | B- 57
Appendix B


If you have participated in the Safe Routes program, do you drive yourself or your child(ren) less often for non-
school trips?
n=23

               Walking School Bus/
                   Bike Train

                      511 SchoolPool
                                                                                                            Walked/biked/
                                                                                                            carpooled/took transit
                      Bicycle Rodeos                                                                        more

                      Walk and Roll
                      to School Days

                       Traffic Safety
                        Assemblies                                                                          Did not walk/bike/
                                                                                                            carpool/take transit
                      Safe Routes                                                                           more
                   Classroom Lessons

                                        0%         20%         40%        60%       80%         100%

                                                   Walked/biked/ carpooled/took           Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                           transit more                            transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                        0                                          0
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                            0                                          0
Walk and Rollto School Days                                          0                                          0
Bicycle Rodeos                                                       0                                          0
511 SchoolPool                                                       0                                          0
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                        0                                          0

At what grade level would you allow your child(ren) to walk or bike to/from school without an adult?
  30%
                                              26%
  25%


  20%
                             16%                         16%   16%
  15%
                                        11%                                          11%
  10%
                                                                     5%
   5%


   0%
         Kinder-      1       2          3     4          5     6     7         8     9        10      11         12      I would
         garten                                                                                                          not feel
                                                                                                                       comfortable
                                                                                                                       at any grade




B-58 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                  Survey and Tally Results by School


What concerns limit your child(ren)'s ability to walk or bike to/from school?


                                       Other                        2%

                      Don't know best route          0%

                                 Bad weather                                                                6%

        Violence/crime in neighborhood                         2%

                           Stranger danger                                                                                        8%

           Lack of bike parking at school                                3%

                         No crossing guards                                                                                            9%

                       Unsafe intersections                                                                                  8%

                           Lack of bikeways                                                       5%

         Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                       3%

           No adults to walk or bike with                                                                                    8%

            Too much traffic along route                                                                                     8%

             Speeding traffic along route                                                                                         8%

             Child has too much to carry                                                               6%

 Child's before or after school activities                                                        5%

           Walking/biking takes too long                                                4%

               Driving is more convenient                                                              6%

                        Too far from school                                                                            8%

                                                0%    1%       2%        3%        4%        5%    6%            7%     8%         9%       10%


                                     Yes        Percent                                                               Yes               Percent
Too far from school                        17             8%              Lack of bikeways                                        12          5%
Driving is more convenient                 13             6%              Unsafe intersections                                    18          8%
Walking/biking takes too long              9              4%              No crossing guards                                      20          9%
Child's before or after school                                            Lack of bike parking at
activities                                 12             5%              school                                                  6           3%
Child has too much to carry                13             6%              Stranger danger                                         19          8%
Speeding traffic along route               19             8%              neighborhood                                            4           2%
Too much traffic along route               18             8%              Bad weather                                             14          6%
No adults to walk or bike with             18             8%              Don't know best route                                   1           0%
Lack of sidewalks and/or
paths                                      7              3%              Other                                                   5           2%




                                                                                                                 Safe Routes to School Report | B- 59
Appendix B


Would you allow your child(ren) to walk/bike more often if this concern was addressed?
Chart shows "yes" responses.


              Lack of bike parking at school                       24%

                          No crossing guards                      22%

                        Unsafe intersections                                        39%

                            Lack of bikeways                                                                        70%

             Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                   33%

              No adults to walk or bike with                                                                                  77%

               Too much traffic along route                                                                                   76%

                Speeding traffic along route                                                      53%

                Child has too much to carry                                                 47%

Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                                                                          71%

              Walking/biking takes too long                                                                       67%

                 Driving is more convenient                                                                 62%

                         Too far from school                                          42%

                                                 0%   10%   20%         30%    40%        50%       60%       70%             80%   90%


                                                                  Yes          No           Not Sure          Total
Too far from school                                                      7            7                 5                 19
Driving is more convenient                                               4           10                 3                 17
Walking/biking takes too long                                            5            9                 3                 17
Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                           7            9                 3                 19
Child has too much to carry                                              8            7                 4                 19
Speeding traffic along route                                            13            6                 2                 21
Too much traffic along route                                            14            5                 2                 21
No adults to walk or bike with                                          15            4                 2                 21
Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                           8            6                 3                 17
Lack of bikeways                                                        10            6                 3                 19
Unsafe intersections                                                    16            3                 2                 21
No crossing guards                                                      17            3                 2                 22
Lack of bike parking at school                                           6            9                 3                 18
Stranger danger                                                         14            5                 1                 20
Violence/crime in neighborhood                                           7            9                 2                 18
Bad weather                                                              4           11                 3                 18
Don't know best route to school                                          4            7                 6                 17
Other                                                                    3



B-60 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                      Survey and Tally Results by School


I would reduce the number of times I drive my child(ren) to school if...

 30%


 25%                                                                                                                24%

                                                                           21%
 20%
                                  16%
                                                                                               15%
 15%
               13%
                                                        11%

 10%


  5%


  0%
       My child wanted to My child wanted to My child wanted to My child knew how Transit/school      It was easier to
        make "greener"       walk/bike to    compete for prizes to walk and bike buses better served coordinate with
            choices         improve their        in contests          safely      my child's school other parents/kids
                                health




Are you interested in participating in any of the following Safe Routes to School tasks?
2.5


                                                                                  2
 2



1.5


                     1                              1
 1



0.5


                                                                                                                0
 0
       Volunteer for student events     Organize a neighborhood      Help identify traffic safety    Help develop Suggested
              and contests              Walking School Bus or Bike        issues at schools          Routes to School maps
                                                  Train




                                                                                                     Safe Routes to School Report | B- 61
Appendix B




This page intentionally left blank.




B-62 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                                Survey and Tally Results by School


Sunset Ridge Elementary Parent Survey Results
Date Collected:                             Spring 2012
Total Surveys Received:                     14

Gender
n= 13                                                             Count         Percent
                                                Male                       5           38%
                                                Female                     8           62%


Grade
n=13

   35%
Grades
                                     31%                                  31%
n= 13
   30%
Percent of Respondents




                         25%

                         20%
                                                                 15%
                         15%

                         10%   8%          8%                                                            8%

                         5%

                         0%
                               Pre    K    1           2          3        4       5           6         7          8      9       10      11      12
                                                                                       Grade


Does/do your child(ren)'s school(s) have a Safe Routes to School Program?
n= 11




                                                                                        18%

                                                                                                              Yes


                                                                                                              No
                                                                                                   18%

                                                           64%
                                                                                                              Don't Know




                                                                                                                               Safe Routes to School Report | B- 63
Appendix B


What is the approximate distance from your home to the school?
n=13

  50%                                                                                    46%
                                                                                                                         Number            Percent
                                                                                                      1/4 mile or
  40%                                                                                                 less                             4        31%
                           31%                                                                        1/4 - 1/2
  30%                                                                                                 mile                             0           0%


  20%                                                 15%                                             1/2 - 1 mile                     2        15%


  10%                                                                 8%                              1 -2 miles                       1           8%
                                                                                                      More than 2
   0%                                                                                                 miles                            6        46%
                       1/4 mile or 1/4 - 1/2 mile 1/2 - 1 mile     1 -2 miles     More than 2
                          less                                                       miles
                                             Distance from School                                     Total                          13        100%


How did your child get TO school?
Mode by day of the week
n=13
                      60

                      50                                                                                                   Monday
                                                                                                                           Tuesday
                      40
    Number of Trips




                                                                                                                           Wednesday
                                                                                                                           Thursday
                      30
                                                                                                                           Friday

                      20

                      10

                       0
                                 Walk          Bike         Driven Solo         School Bus       Carpool             City Bus/         Other
                                                                                                                      Transit
                                                                                  Mode

                                                                           Driven                                        City Bus/
Travel to School                               Walk         Bike            Solo         School Bus     Carpool           Transit          Other
Monday                                                 0             0              12            0                  1                 0             0
Tuesday                                                0             0              11            0                  2                 0             0
Wednesday                                              0             0              11            0                  2                 0             0
Thursday                                               0             0              10            0                  2                 0             0
Friday                                                 0             0              11            0                  1                 0             0
Total trips                                           0              0            55              0                  8                0              0
Percent of trips                                      0%            0%            87%            0%               13%                 0%           0%




B-64 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                            Survey and Tally Results by School


How did your child get FROM school?
Mode by day of the week
n=13

                       50
                       45
                                                                                                             Monday
                       40
                                                                                                             Tuesday
                       35
     Number of Trips




                                                                                                             Wednesday
                       30
                                                                                                             Thursday
                       25
                                                                                                             Friday
                       20
                       15
                       10
                        5
                        0
                            Walk      Bike         Driven Solo      School Bus         Carpool         City Bus/          Other
                                                                                                        Transit
                                                                      Mode

                                                                 Driven                                     City Bus/
Travel from school                   Walk          Bike           Solo        School Bus    Carpool          Transit          Other
Monday                                         1           0              9            0               3                 0             0
Tuesday                                        1           0              8            0               4                 0             0
Wednesday                                      1           0              8            0               4                 0             0
Thursday                                       1           0              7            0               4                 0             0
Friday                                         3           0              6            0               3                 0             0
Total trips                                    7          0           38               0              18                 0            0
Percent of trips                          11%             0%         60%              0%          29%                   0%            0%


Mode Split TO school                                                          Mode Split FROM school

               Carpool,
                 13%

                                                                                                            Walk, 11%

                                                                                           Carpool,
                                                                                             29%




                                    Driven                                                                       Driven
                                   Solo, 87%                                                                    Solo, 60%




                                                                                                           Safe Routes to School Report | B- 65
Appendix B


Overall mode split TO and FROM school
Mode by day of the week
                       100
                       90
                                                                                                      Monday
                       80
                                                                                                      Tuesday
                       70
                                                                                                      Wednesday
     Number of Trips




                       60
                                                                                                      Thursday
                       50                                                                             Friday
                       40
                       30
                       20
                       10
                         0
                             Walk   Bike        Driven Solo    School Bus          Carpool       City Bus/        Other
                                                                                                  Transit
                                                                 Mode

                                                            Driven                                   City Bus/
Travel for all trips                Walk        Bike         Solo         School Bus   Carpool        Transit         Other
Monday                                      1           0            21            0             4                0            0
Tuesday                                     1           0            19            0             6                0            0
Wednesday                                   1           0            19            0             6                0            0
Thursday                                    1           0            17            0             6                0            0
Friday                                      3           0            17            0             4                0            0
Total trips                                7           0         93                0         26                   0           0
Percent of trips                           6%          0%        74%              0%         21%                 0%           0%
Mode by day of the week


Mode split for all trips

                                                              Walk, 6%


                                    Carpool, 21%




                                                                              Driven Solo,
                                                                                  74%




B-66 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                                              Survey and Tally Results by School


Weekly Trips by Mode and Distance from School
Mode by distance from school
                                            70
                                                                                                                                                            Other
                                            60
           Number of Trips per Week




                                                                                                                                                            City Bus/
                                            50                                                                                                              Transit
                                                                                                                                                            Carpools
                                            40
                                                                                                                                                            School Bus
                                            30
                                                                                                                                                            Driven
                                            20
                                                                                                                                                            Bikes
                                            10
                                                                                                                                                            Walks
                                             0
                                                 1/4 mile or less    1/4 - 1/2 mile       1/2 - 1 mile          1 - 2 miles        More than 2
                                                                                                                                      miles
                                                                                Distance from School

                                                                                                                                              City Bus/
                                                                    Walks         Bikes       Driven         School Bus       Carpools         Transit          Other
1/4 mile or less                                                            5             0            25              0             10                     0             0
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                              0             0              0             0                 0                  0             0
1/2 - 1 mile                                                                0             0            16              0                 0                  0             0
1 - 2 miles                                                                 0             0            10              0                 0                  0             0
More than 2 miles                                                           2             0            42              0             16                     0             0
Grand Total                                                                 7             0            93              0             26                     0             0


Mode Split by Distance from School
                          100%


                                      80%
                                                                                                                                                    Other
                                                                                                                                                    City Bus/ Transit
Percent of Mode




                                      60%
                                                                                                                                                    Carpools

                                      40%                                                                                                           School Bus
                                                                                                                                                    Driven
                                      20%                                                                                                           Bikes
                                                                                                                                                    Walks
                                      0%
                                            1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile     1/2 - 1 mile    1 - 2 miles                   More than 2 miles
                                                                           Distance from School

                                                                                                                                              City Bus/
                                                                    Walks         Bikes       Driven School Bus               Carpools         Transit          Other
1/4 mile or less                                                        13%            0%          63%       0%                    25%                    0%             0%
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                           0%            0%           0%       0%                      0%                   0%             0%
1/2 - 1 mile                                                             0%            0%         100%       0%                      0%                   0%             0%
1 - 2 miles                                                              0%            0%         100%       0%                      0%                   0%             0%
More than 2 miles                                                        3%            0%          70%       0%                    27%                    0%             0%
Grand Total                                                              6%            0%          74%       0%                    21%                    0%             0%


                                                                                                                                             Safe Routes to School Report | B- 67
Appendix B


Weekly Miles Traveled by Mode

                  100
                   90
                   80
                   70
                   60
   Miles




                   50
                   40
                   30
                   20
                   10
                    0
                                     Walks            Bikes           Driven           School Bus        Carpools        City Bus/           Other
                                                                                                                          Transit
                                                                                          Mode

                                                                                                                               City Bus/
                                                      Walks        Bikes           Driven        School Bus   Carpools          Transit          Other
Morning Trips                                                  0              0             92            0           33                    0               0
Afternoon Trips                                                6              0             85            0           34                    0               0
All Trips                                                     6               0          178              0          66                     0            250
Percent of Total Mileage                                      2%           0%            71%             0%         27%                    0%              0%
Note:This analysis uses the mode frequency by respondent and assumes the median of the distance from school categories or
the respondent-provided distance if greater than two miles.


How strongly do you agree with the following statement?
a. n=5 b. n=6 c. n=6 d. n=6

                                                                    Walking and bicycling is...
                           7

                           6

                           5                                                                                                         Strongly Disagree
     Number of Responses




                           4                                                                                                         Somewhat Disagree


                           3                                                                                                         Neutral/ No Opinion


                           2                                                                                                         Somewhat Agree


                                                                                                                                     Strongly Agree
                           1

                           0
                               ...fun for my child(ren) ...important for my       ...encouraged by my ...something I wish we
                                                        child(ren)'s health          child(ren)'s school   did more often




B-68 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                      Survey and Tally Results by School


Have you or your child(ren) participated in the following Safe Routes to School events/programs?
 18%                                             17%
 16%

 14%

 12%

 10%

  8%                                                                                                                 7%

  6%

  4%

  2%
             0%                0%                                 0%               0%               0%
  0%
         Safe Routes      Traffic Safety    Walk and Roll    Bicycle Rodeos   511 SchoolPool   Walking School      Other
          Classroom        Assemblies       to School Days                                          Bus/
           Lessons                                                                              Bike Train


For any events/programs you answered "yes" for in the previous question, did your child(ren) walk, bike, or
carpool more often after participating?
Note: Includes responses from respondents who previously indicated that they had participated in the specific program.


  Walking School Bus/
      Bike Train

                                                                                                           Walked/biked/
       511 SchoolPool
                                                                                                           carpooled/took
                                                                                                           transit more
       Bicycle Rodeos

       Walk and Roll                                                                                       Did not walk/bike/
       to School Days                                                                                      carpool/take transit
                                                                                                           more
        Traffic Safety
         Assemblies

       Safe Routes
    Classroom Lessons

                         0%           20%              40%          60%            80%            100%

                                               Walked/biked/ carpooled/took              Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                       transit more                               transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                    0                                             0
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                        0                                             0
Walk and Rollto School Days                                      0                                             0
Bicycle Rodeos                                                   0                                             0
511 SchoolPool                                                   0                                             0
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                    0                                             0
Other                                                            0




                                                                                                     Safe Routes to School Report | B- 69
Appendix B


If you have participated in the Safe Routes program, do you drive yourself or your child(ren) less often for non-
school trips?
n=5

               Walking School Bus/
                   Bike Train

                      511 SchoolPool
                                                                                                         Walked/biked/
                                                                                                         carpooled/took transit
                      Bicycle Rodeos                                                                     more

                      Walk and Roll
                      to School Days

                       Traffic Safety
                        Assemblies                                                                       Did not walk/bike/
                                                                                                         carpool/take transit
                      Safe Routes                                                                        more
                   Classroom Lessons

                                        0%       20%         40%        60%       80%        100%

                                                 Walked/biked/ carpooled/took          Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                         transit more                           transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                      0                                         0
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                          0                                         0
Walk and Rollto School Days                                        0                                         0
Bicycle Rodeos                                                     0                                         0
511 SchoolPool                                                     0                                         0
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                      0                                         0

At what grade level would you allow your child(ren) to walk or bike to/from school without an adult?
  70%                                                  67%

  60%

  50%

  40%
                                                             33%
  30%

  20%

  10%

   0%
         Kinder-      1       2          3   4          5     6     7         8    9        10      11         12      I would
         garten                                                                                                       not feel
                                                                                                                    comfortable
                                                                                                                    at any grade




B-70 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                         Survey and Tally Results by School


What concerns limit your child(ren)'s ability to walk or bike to/from school?


                                       Other                                                  6%

                      Don't know best route         0%

                                 Bad weather                                                  6%

        Violence/crime in neighborhood              0%

                           Stranger danger                                                                 9%

           Lack of bike parking at school                           2%

                         No crossing guards                                   4%

                       Unsafe intersections                                   4%

                           Lack of bikeways                                                   6%

         Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                       4%

           No adults to walk or bike with                                                                  9%

            Too much traffic along route                                                                   9%

             Speeding traffic along route                                                     6%

             Child has too much to carry                                      4%

 Child's before or after school activities                                                    6%

           Walking/biking takes too long                                      4%

               Driving is more convenient                                                                                   11%

                        Too far from school                                                                9%

                                               0%              2%        4%            6%          8%             10%             12%


                                     Yes       Percent                                                      Yes             Percent
Too far from school                        4             9%              Lack of bikeways                               3           6%
Driving is more convenient                 5             11%             Unsafe intersections                           2           4%
Walking/biking takes too long              2             4%              No crossing guards                             2           4%
Child's before or after school                                           Lack of bike parking at
activities                                 3             6%              school                                         1           2%
Child has too much to carry                2             4%              Stranger danger                                4           9%
Speeding traffic along route               3             6%              neighborhood                                   0           0%
Too much traffic along route               4             9%              Bad weather                                    3           6%
No adults to walk or bike with             4             9%              Don't know best route                          0           0%
Lack of sidewalks and/or
paths                                      2             4%              Other                                          3           6%




                                                                                                        Safe Routes to School Report | B- 71
Appendix B


Would you allow your child(ren) to walk/bike more often if this concern was addressed?
Chart shows "yes" responses.


              Lack of bike parking at school          0%

                          No crossing guards                               25%

                        Unsafe intersections          0%

                            Lack of bikeways                               25%

             Lack of sidewalks and/or paths           0%

              No adults to walk or bike with                               25%

               Too much traffic along route                                25%

                Speeding traffic along route          0%

                Child has too much to carry           0%

Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                                                                       60%

              Walking/biking takes too long                                25%

                 Driving is more convenient                                25%

                         Too far from school                               25%

                                                 0%        10%   20%        30%       40%            50%           60%     70%


                                                                 Yes         No       Not Sure             Total
Too far from school                                                    3          1              1                   5
Driving is more convenient                                             2          0              2                   4
Walking/biking takes too long                                          0          2              2                   4
Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                         0          1              3                   4
Child has too much to carry                                            1          1              2                   4
Speeding traffic along route                                           1          2              1                   4
Too much traffic along route                                           1          2              1                   4
No adults to walk or bike with                                         3          1              1                   5
Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                         0          3              1                   4
Lack of bikeways                                                       0          4              1                   5
Unsafe intersections                                                   1          2              1                   4
No crossing guards                                                     1          2              1                   4
Lack of bike parking at school                                         0          3              1                   4
Stranger danger                                                        1          2              1                   4
Violence/crime in neighborhood                                         0          2              2                   4
Bad weather                                                            1          1              2                   4
Don't know best route to school                                        0          2              2                   4
Other                                                                  2



B-72 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                      Survey and Tally Results by School


I would reduce the number of times I drive my child(ren) to school if...

 30%                                                                                                                29%


 25%


 20%


 15%           14%                14%                   14%                14%                 14%



 10%


  5%


  0%
       My child wanted to My child wanted to My child wanted to My child knew how Transit/school      It was easier to
        make "greener"       walk/bike to    compete for prizes to walk and bike buses better served coordinate with
            choices         improve their        in contests          safely      my child's school other parents/kids
                                health




Are you interested in participating in any of the following Safe Routes to School tasks?
2.5


                                                                                                                2
 2



1.5


                     1                              1
 1



0.5


                                                                                  0
 0
       Volunteer for student events     Organize a neighborhood      Help identify traffic safety    Help develop Suggested
              and contests              Walking School Bus or Bike        issues at schools          Routes to School maps
                                                  Train




                                                                                                     Safe Routes to School Report | B- 73
Appendix B




This page intentionally left blank.




B-74 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                         Survey and Tally Results by School


Vallemar Elementary Parent Survey Results
Date Collected:                             Spring 2012
Total Surveys Received:                     25

Gender
n= 24                                                        Count         Percent
                                                Male                 14           58%
                                                Female               10           42%


Grade
n=24

   18%
Grades                               17%           17%      17%
n= 24
   16%
                         14%
Percent of Respondents




                                                                     13%                13%
                         12%
                         10%
                                           8%
                         8%
                         6%
                                                                             4%                              4%            4%               4%
                         4%
                         2%
                         0%
                               Pre    K    1           2     3        4       5           6        7         8      9       10      11      12
                                                                                  Grade


Does/do your child(ren)'s school(s) have a Safe Routes to School Program?
n= 24



                                                                                  17%

                                                                                                       Yes
                                                                                              8%
                                                                                                       No


                                                                                                       Don't Know
                                                           75%




                                                                                                                        Safe Routes to School Report | B- 75
Appendix B


What is the approximate distance from your home to the school?
n=24

  40%                                                                                    38%
                                                                                                                         Number           Percent
  35%                                                                 33%
                                                                                                      1/4 mile or
  30%                                                                                                 less                            1           4%
                                                                                                      1/4 - 1/2
  25%
                                                                                                      mile                            4         17%
  20%                                   17%
  15%                                                                                                 1/2 - 1 mile                    2           8%

  10%                                                   8%
                                                                                                      1 -2 miles                      8         33%
                           4%
   5%                                                                                                 More than 2
   0%                                                                                                 miles                           9         38%
                       1/4 mile or 1/4 - 1/2 mile 1/2 - 1 mile      1 -2 miles     More than 2
                          less                                                        miles
                                              Distance from School                                    Total                          24        100%


How did your child get TO school?
Mode by day of the week
n=24
                      80

                      70
                                                                                                                           Monday
                      60                                                                                                   Tuesday
    Number of Trips




                      50                                                                                                   Wednesday
                                                                                                                           Thursday
                      40
                                                                                                                           Friday
                      30

                      20

                      10

                       0
                                Walk           Bike          Driven Solo         School Bus      Carpool             City Bus/         Other
                                                                                                                      Transit
                                                                                   Mode

                                                                           Driven                                        City Bus/
Travel to School                               Walk          Bike           Solo         School Bus     Carpool           Transit         Other
Monday                                                  3             0             17            0                  1                3             0
Tuesday                                                 5             0             14            0                  2                3             0
Wednesday                                               1             4             15            0                  1                3             0
Thursday                                                5             0             15            0                  1                3             0
Friday                                                  5             2             12            0                  2                3             0
Total trips                                           19              6            73             0                  7               15             0
Percent of trips                                      16%            5%            61%           0%                6%               13%           0%




B-76 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                Survey and Tally Results by School


How did your child get FROM school?
Mode by day of the week
n=24

                       80

                       70
                                                                                                                 Monday
                       60                                                                                        Tuesday
     Number of Trips




                       50                                                                                        Wednesday

                                                                                                                 Thursday
                       40
                                                                                                                 Friday
                       30

                       20

                       10

                        0
                            Walk         Bike        Driven Solo      School Bus          Carpool        City Bus/            Other
                                                                                                          Transit
                                                                        Mode

                                                                   Driven                                       City Bus/
Travel from school                      Walk         Bike           Solo         School Bus   Carpool            Transit          Other
Monday                                           5           0              15            0             1                     3            0
Tuesday                                          5           0              14            0             2                     3            0
Wednesday                                        5           2              12            0             2                     3            0
Thursday                                         5           1              14            0             1                     3            0
Friday                                           5           2              13            0             1                     3            0
Total trips                                     25          5           68                0             7                   15            0
Percent of trips                            21%             4%          57%              0%            6%                   13%           0%


Mode Split TO school                                                             Mode Split FROM school
       City Bus/
         Transit,
           13%
Carpool,
   6%                                   Walk,                                      Carpool,         City Bus/
                                         16%                                          6%             Transit,
                                                         Bike, 5%
                                                                                                       13%          Walk, 21%


                                                                                                                            Bike, 4%




                             Driven                                                                  Driven
                            Solo, 61%                                                               Solo, 57%




                                                                                                            Safe Routes to School Report | B- 77
Appendix B


Overall mode split TO and FROM school
Mode by day of the week
                       160

                       140
                                                                                                           Monday
                       120                                                                                 Tuesday
                                                                                                           Wednesday
     Number of Trips




                       100
                                                                                                           Thursday
                       80                                                                                  Friday

                       60

                       40

                       20

                         0
                             Walk   Bike          Driven Solo      School Bus         Carpool         City Bus/         Other
                                                                                                       Transit
                                                                     Mode

                                                               Driven                                     City Bus/
Travel for all trips                Walk         Bike           Solo         School Bus     Carpool        Transit          Other
Monday                                      8            0              32            0               2                 6            0
Tuesday                                    10            0              28            0               4                 6            0
Wednesday                                   6            6              27            0               3                 6            0
Thursday                                   10            1              29            0               2                 6            0
Friday                                     10            4              25            0               3                 6            0
Total trips                                44           11          141               0              14               30            0
Percent of trips                       18%              5%          59%              0%              6%               13%           0%
Mode by day of the week


Mode split for all trips
                                                 City Bus/
                                                Transit, 13%

                                     Carpool, 6%
                                                                        Walk, 18%
                                                                                          Bike, 5%




                                                    Driven Solo,
                                                        59%




B-78 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                                                                 Survey and Tally Results by School


Weekly Trips by Mode and Distance from School
Mode by distance from school
                                            100
                                            90                                                                                                                 Other
                                            80
           Number of Trips per Week




                                                                                                                                                               City Bus/
                                            70                                                                                                                 Transit
                                                                                                                                                               Carpools
                                            60
                                            50                                                                                                                 School Bus
                                            40
                                                                                                                                                               Driven
                                            30
                                            20                                                                                                                 Bikes
                                            10
                                                                                                                                                               Walks
                                              0
                                                  1/4 mile or less    1/4 - 1/2 mile         1/2 - 1 mile          1 - 2 miles        More than 2
                                                                                                                                         miles
                                                                                  Distance from School

                                                                                                                                                 City Bus/
                                                                     Walks          Bikes        Driven         School Bus       Carpools         Transit          Other
1/4 mile or less                                                             10              0              0             0                 0                  0             0
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                               18             11           11               0                 0                  0             0
1/2 - 1 mile                                                                 16              0              4             0                 0                  0             0
1 - 2 miles                                                                  0               0           48               0                 2                30              0
More than 2 miles                                                            0               0           78               0             12                     0             0
Grand Total                                                              44                 11        141                 0             14                   30              0


Mode Split by Distance from School
                          100%


                                      80%
                                                                                                                                                       Other
                                                                                                                                                       City Bus/ Transit
Percent of Mode




                                      60%
                                                                                                                                                       Carpools

                                      40%                                                                                                              School Bus
                                                                                                                                                       Driven
                                      20%                                                                                                              Bikes
                                                                                                                                                       Walks
                                      0%
                                             1/4 mile or less 1/4 - 1/2 mile     1/2 - 1 mile    1 - 2 miles                     More than 2 miles
                                                                            Distance from School

                                                                                                                                                 City Bus/
                                                                     Walks          Bikes        Driven School Bus               Carpools         Transit          Other
1/4 mile or less                                                       100%              0%            0%       0%                      0%                 0%               0%
1/4 - 1/2 mile                                                           45%            28%           28%       0%                      0%                 0%               0%
1/2 - 1 mile                                                             80%             0%           20%       0%                      0%                 0%               0%
1 - 2 miles                                                               0%             0%           60%       0%                      3%                38%               0%
More than 2 miles                                                         0%             0%           87%       0%                    13%                  0%               0%
Grand Total                                                             18%              5%          59%        0%                     6%                 13%               0%


                                                                                                                                                Safe Routes to School Report | B- 79
Appendix B


Weekly Miles Traveled by Mode

                          160
                          140
                          120
                          100
   Miles




                           80
                           60
                           40
                           20
                            0
                                      Walks            Bikes           Driven           School Bus       Carpools        City Bus/           Other
                                                                                                                          Transit
                                                                                           Mode

                                                                                                                                City Bus/
                                                       Walks        Bikes           Driven      School Bus    Carpools           Transit         Other
Morning Trips                                                   8              2          240             0            13                   23              0
Afternoon Trips                                                11              2          234             0            16                   23              0
All Trips                                                      19              4          474             0           29                    45           571
Percent of Total Mileage                                       3%           1%            83%            0%           5%                    8%             0%
Note:This analysis uses the mode frequency by respondent and assumes the median of the distance from school categories or
the respondent-provided distance if greater than two miles.


How strongly do you agree with the following statement?
a. n=11 b. n=11 c. n=11 d. n=11

                                                                     Walking and bicycling is...
                          12


                          10

                                                                                                                                     Strongly Disagree
    Number of Responses




                           8
                                                                                                                                     Somewhat Disagree
                           6
                                                                                                                                     Neutral/ No Opinion

                           4
                                                                                                                                     Somewhat Agree


                           2                                                                                                         Strongly Agree


                           0
                                ...fun for my child(ren) ...important for my       ...encouraged by my ...something I wish we
                                                         child(ren)'s health          child(ren)'s school   did more often




B-80 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                      Survey and Tally Results by School


Have you or your child(ren) participated in the following Safe Routes to School events/programs?
 10%
                                                                                                    9%
  9%
                                                                                                                     8%
  8%
  7%
  6%
  5%
  4%
  3%
  2%
  1%
             0%                0%                0%                 0%             0%
  0%
         Safe Routes      Traffic Safety    Walk and Roll    Bicycle Rodeos   511 SchoolPool   Walking School      Other
          Classroom        Assemblies       to School Days                                          Bus/
           Lessons                                                                              Bike Train


For any events/programs you answered "yes" for in the previous question, did your child(ren) walk, bike, or
carpool more often after participating?
Note: Includes responses from respondents who previously indicated that they had participated in the specific program.


  Walking School Bus/
      Bike Train
                                                             100%

                                                                                                           Walked/biked/
       511 SchoolPool
                                                                                                           carpooled/took
                                                                                                           transit more
       Bicycle Rodeos

       Walk and Roll                                                                                       Did not walk/bike/
       to School Days                                                                                      carpool/take transit
                                                                                                           more
        Traffic Safety
         Assemblies

       Safe Routes
    Classroom Lessons

                         0%           20%             40%            60%           80%            100%

                                               Walked/biked/ carpooled/took              Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                       transit more                               transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                    0                                             0
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                        0                                             0
Walk and Rollto School Days                                      0                                             0
Bicycle Rodeos                                                   0                                             0
511 SchoolPool                                                   0                                             0
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                    0                                             1
Other                                                            1




                                                                                                     Safe Routes to School Report | B- 81
Appendix B


If you have participated in the Safe Routes program, do you drive yourself or your child(ren) less often for non-
school trips?
n=10

               Walking School Bus/
                   Bike Train

                      511 SchoolPool
                                                                                                              Walked/biked/
                                                                                                              carpooled/took transit
                      Bicycle Rodeos                                                                          more

                      Walk and Roll
                      to School Days

                       Traffic Safety
                        Assemblies                                                                            Did not walk/bike/
                                                                                                              carpool/take transit
                      Safe Routes                                                                             more
                   Classroom Lessons

                                        0%         20%         40%        60%         80%         100%

                                                   Walked/biked/ carpooled/took             Did not walk/bike/ carpool/take
                                                           transit more                              transit more
Safe Routes Classroom Lessons                                        0                                            0
Traffic Safety Assemblies                                            0                                            0
Walk and Rollto School Days                                          0                                            0
Bicycle Rodeos                                                       0                                            0
511 SchoolPool                                                       0                                            0
Walking School Bus/Bike Train                                        0                                            0

At what grade level would you allow your child(ren) to walk or bike to/from school without an adult?
  35%
                                              30%
  30%

  25%
                                                         20%                           20%
  20%

  15%
                                        10%                    10%              10%
  10%

   5%

   0%
         Kinder-      1       2          3     4          5     6     7          8      9        10      11         12      I would
         garten                                                                                                            not feel
                                                                                                                         comfortable
                                                                                                                         at any grade




B-82 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                     Survey and Tally Results by School


What concerns limit your child(ren)'s ability to walk or bike to/from school?


                                       Other                    3%

                      Don't know best route          1%

                                 Bad weather                         4%

        Violence/crime in neighborhood                     2%

                           Stranger danger                                                      8%

           Lack of bike parking at school                            4%

                         No crossing guards                                  4%

                       Unsafe intersections                                                                    10%

                           Lack of bikeways                                                              9%

         Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                                                  9%

           No adults to walk or bike with                                               6%

            Too much traffic along route                                                        8%

             Speeding traffic along route                                                       8%

             Child has too much to carry                                                6%

 Child's before or after school activities                                   4%

           Walking/biking takes too long                                          5%

               Driving is more convenient                            4%

                        Too far from school                                             6%

                                                0%         2%        4%            6%          8%             10%          12%


                                     Yes        Percent                                                 Yes             Percent
Too far from school                        7          6%             Lack of bikeways                           10            9%
Driving is more convenient                 4          4%             Unsafe intersections                       11           10%
Walking/biking takes too long              6          5%             No crossing guards                             5         4%
Child's before or after school                                       Lack of bike parking at
activities                                 5          4%             school                                         4         4%
Child has too much to carry                7          6%             Stranger danger                                9         8%
Speeding traffic along route               9          8%             neighborhood                                   2         2%
Too much traffic along route               9          8%             Bad weather                                    4         4%
No adults to walk or bike with             7          6%             Don't know best route                          1         1%
Lack of sidewalks and/or
paths                                      10         9%             Other                                          3         3%




                                                                                                    Safe Routes to School Report | B- 83
Appendix B


Would you allow your child(ren) to walk/bike more often if this concern was addressed?
Chart shows "yes" responses.


              Lack of bike parking at school                                               55%

                          No crossing guards                                                     60%

                        Unsafe intersections                                             50%

                            Lack of bikeways                                                             67%

             Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                                      60%

              No adults to walk or bike with                                                               70%

               Too much traffic along route                                                                            82%

                Speeding traffic along route                                                                   73%

                Child has too much to carry                                                                            83%

Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                                                                               90%

              Walking/biking takes too long                                                          64%

                 Driving is more convenient                                                              67%

                         Too far from school                                                         64%

                                                 0%   10%   20%    30%       40%    50%        60%     70%       80%     90%       100%


                                                                  Yes          No         Not Sure             Total
Too far from school                                                      6           3               2                  11
Driving is more convenient                                               3           3               4                  10
Walking/biking takes too long                                            4           4               2                  10
Child(ren)'s before or after school activities                           5           4               2                  11
Child has too much to carry                                              7           3               1                  11
Speeding traffic along route                                             8           2               2                  12
Too much traffic along route                                             7           2               2                  11
No adults to walk or bike with                                           9           0               1                  10
Lack of sidewalks and/or paths                                          10           0               2                  12
Lack of bikeways                                                         8           0               3                  11
Unsafe intersections                                                     9           0               2                  11
No crossing guards                                                       7           1               2                  10
Lack of bike parking at school                                           6           2               2                  10
Stranger danger                                                          8           1               3                  12
Violence/crime in neighborhood                                           5           2               3                  10
Bad weather                                                              6           1               3                  10
Don't know best route to school                                          6           2               3                  11
Other                                                                    2



B-84 | Pacifica School District
                                                                                                      Survey and Tally Results by School


I would reduce the number of times I drive my child(ren) to school if...

 25%
                                                                                                                    22%


 20%                              19%                                                          19%


               15%                                      15%
 15%

                                                                           11%

 10%



  5%



  0%
       My child wanted to My child wanted to My child wanted to My child knew how Transit/school      It was easier to
        make "greener"       walk/bike to    compete for prizes to walk and bike buses better served coordinate with
            choices         improve their        in contests          safely      my child's school other parents/kids
                                health




Are you interested in participating in any of the following Safe Routes to School tasks?
2.5


                                                                                  2
 2



1.5


                     1                              1                                                           1
 1



0.5



 0
       Volunteer for student events     Organize a neighborhood      Help identify traffic safety    Help develop Suggested
              and contests              Walking School Bus or Bike        issues at schools          Routes to School maps
                                                  Train




                                                                                                     Safe Routes to School Report | B- 85
Appendix B




This page intentionally left blank.




B-86 | Pacifica School District
                                       Hal Bohner
                                           Attorney
                      115 An g elit a Av en ue · Pacifica, C A 94044
                                  ph/fax 650-359-4257
                                hbohner@earthlink.net




                                        sent by email to
                           heidemarie.carle@dot.ca.gov April 9, 2013



Ms. Heidemarie Carle
Public Records Act Coordinator
Caltrans District 4
111 Grand Ave.,
Oakland, CA 94612


       Re:     Request under California Public Records Act


Dear Heidi:


        Pursuant to the California Public Records Act please provide me the opportunity to
inspect and copy certain documents which are identified below. I assume that there will be no
charge for responding to my request. If I am incorrect please advise me before incurring costs.

      My request relates to Caltrans' Draft Environmental Impact Report / Environmental
Assessment for State Route 1 / Calera Parkway / Highway 1 Widening Project San Mateo
County, California 04-SM-1 / PM 41.7/43.0 / EA 04-254600. (The DEIR)

        Prior to issuing the DEIR Caltrans held public meetings in Pacifica concerning their
proposed project. I am attaching a document titled "State Route 1/Calera Parkway Project
Public Information Meeting June 22, 2010" (Hwy-1-Calera_Public_Info_Mtg_6-22-
10_v15_web.pdf). At the meeting Caltrans representatives explained that they had use computer
simulations to arrive at many of their conclusions about predicted traffic flow. For example,
computer simulations are mentioned at pages 11 and 12 of 47.

        Please provide me all computer simulations concerning or related to the Calera Parkway
project. Of course, I do not have the computer software to run the program which Caltrans used,
which I believe is called VISSIM. However, I assume that videos have been made of the
simulation runs and I am requesting copies of those videos.

        Also please provide me any written documents which concern or relate to the simulations
and the results of those computer runs including documents that summarize or discuss the results
of the simulations.


Page 1 of 2
       Thank you for your cooperation.



Sincerely,




Hal Bohner




Page 2 of 2
           A New Direction
 Our Changing Relationship with Driving
and the Implications for America's Future




                 U.S. PIRG Education Fund
                            Frontier Group
                                   Tony Dutzik,
                                 Frontier Group
                             Phineas Baxandall,
                      U.S. PIRG Education Fund


                                Spring 2013
    A New Direction
 Our Changing Relationship with Driving
and the Implications for America's Future
Acknowledgments


U.S. PIRG Education Fund and Frontier Group sincerely thank Nick Donohue and David Goldberg
of Transportation for America; Darnell Grisby of the American Public Transportation Association;
Todd Litman of the Victoria Transport Policy Institute; Danny Katz of CoPIRG Foundation; Kirstie
Pecci of MASSPIRG Education Fund; Adie Tomer of the Brookings Institution; Serena Unrein of
Arizona PIRG Education Fund; Clark Williams-Derry of the Sightline Institute, and others for
their review of drafts of this document, as well as for their insights and suggestions. Thanks also
to Clark Williams-Derry and to Bruce Speight of WISPIRG Foundation for their contributions
to this paper. The authors sincerely thank Tom Van Heeke of Frontier Group for his research as-
sistance and Elizabeth Ridlington of Frontier Group for her editorial assistance.

U.S. PIRG Education Fund and Frontier Group thank the Rockefeller Foundation for making this
report possible.

The authors bear responsibility for any factual errors. The recommendations are those of U.S. PIRG
Education Fund. The views expressed in this report are those of the authors and do not necessarily
reflect the views of our funders or those who provided review.

   2013 U.S. PIRG Education Fund. Some Rights Reserved. This work is licensed under a Creative
Commons Attribution Non-Commercial No Derivatives 3.0 Unported License. To view the terms
of this license, visit creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0.

With public debate around important issues often dominated by special interests pursuing their own
narrow agendas, U.S. PIRG Education Fund offers an independent voice that works on behalf of the
public interest. U.S. PIRG Education Fund, a 501(c)(3) organization, works to protect consumers
and promote good government. We investigate problems, craft solutions, educate the public and
offer Americans meaningful opportunities for civic participation. For more information, please
visit our website at www.uspirgedfund.org.

Frontier Group conducts independent research and policy analysis to support a cleaner, healthier
and more democratic society. Our mission is to inject accurate information and compelling ideas
into public policy debates at the local, state and federal levels. For more information about Frontier
Group, please visit www.frontiergroup.org.

Graphic Design: Harriet Eckstein Graphic Design
Cover photos ( clockwise from top left): Bored driver, Diego Cervo, shutterstock.com; Las Vegas sprawl, Tim Roberts
Photography, shutterstock.com; California traffic, Tim McCaig, istockphoto.com; Portland streetcar, Daniel Deitschel,
istockphoto.com; Female transit rider, Luis Alvarez, istockphoto.com; Urban bicyclist, Jon Patton, istockphoto.com.
Photos are intended for aesthetic purposes only, not to convey editorial content.
                                                     Table of Contents


Executive Summary............................................................................................. 1
Introduction......................................................................................................... 8
The End of the Driving Boom............................................................................... 9
       The Rise in Driving from 1946-2004.................................................................... 9
       The Crest of the Wave: Driving Trends in the 21st Century..................................11
       Why the Driving Boom Is Over ... and Why it's not Coming Back.                                .......................11
       Summary.  ...........................................................................................................19
What Comes Next? How the Millennials Will Determine
the Future of Transportation.
                            ............................................................................. 20
       The New Transportation Habits of the Millennials.............................................. 21
       Transportation and Lifestyle Preferences of the Millennials.  ................................ 23
       The Mobile Technology Revolution, Millennials and Transportation.................... 25
Americans Will Drive Less than Was Predicted a Few Years Ago.
How Much Less Is Uncertain............................................................................. 28
       Three Scenarios of Future Driving...................................................................... 28
       Implications of Possible Futures......................................................................... 30
The Implications of Changing Driving Trends:
Opportunities and Challenges........................................................................... 33
       Less Congestion................................................................................................ 33
       Reduced Fossil Fuel Consumption and Air Pollution........................................... 34
       Reduced Expenditures for Highway Expansion and Maintenance.                                 ....................... 35
       Reduced Revenue from the Gasoline Tax........................................................... 36
       Increased Risk for Public-Private Partnerships.................................................... 38
       Summary. .......................................................................................................... 39
A New Vision for Transportation Policy............................................................. 40
       1.   Plan (and invest) for uncertainty................................................................... 40
       2.   Support the desire of Millennials and other Americans to drive less..                      ............. 42
       3.   Revisit plans for new or expanded highways................................................. 43
       4.   Refocus the federal role................................................................................ 44
       5.   Use transportation revenue where it is most needed..                 ................................... 45
       6.   Do our homework........................................................................................ 45
Conclusion......................................................................................................... 47
Methodology..................................................................................................... 48
Notes................................................................................................................. 54
                                              Executive Summary




T
      he Driving Boom--a six decade-             The time has come for America to
      long period of steady increases in      hit the "reset" button on transportation
      per-capita driving in the United        policy--replacing the policy infrastructure
States--is over.                              of the Driving Boom years with a more
   Americans drive fewer total miles today    efficient, flexible and nimble system that
than we did eight years ago, and fewer        is better able to meet the transportation
per person than we did at the end of Bill     needs of the 21st century.
Clinton's first term. The unique combina-
tion of conditions that fueled the Driving    The Driving Boom is over.
Boom--from cheap gas prices to the rapid
expansion of the workforce during the         · Americans drove more miles nearly
Baby Boom generation--no longer exists.         every year between the end of World
Meanwhile, a new generation--the Mil-           War II and 2004. (See Figure ES-1,
lennials--is demanding a new American           next page.) By the end of this period
Dream less dependent on driving.                of rapid increases in per-capita driv-
   Transportation policy in the United          ing--which we call the "Driving
States, however, remains stuck in the past.     Boom"--the average American was
Official forecasts of future vehicle travel     driving 85 percent more miles each
continue to assume steady increases in          year than in 1970.
driving, despite the experience of the past
decade. Those forecasts are used to justify   · Americans drive no more miles in total
spending vast sums on new and expanded          today than we did in 2004 and no
highways, even as existing roads and            more per person than we did in 1996.
bridges are neglected. Elements of a more
balanced transportation system--from          · On the other hand, Americans took
transit systems to bike lanes--lack crucial     nearly 10 percent more trips via public
investment as powerful interests battle to      transportation in 2011 than we did in
maintain their piece of a shrinking trans-      2005. The nation also saw increases in
portation funding pie.                          commuting by bike and on foot.



                                                                                            Executive Summary
                   Figure ES-1. Total and Per-Capita Vehicle-Miles Traveled, U.S.




                   * 2012 data from U.S. Department of Transportation's (U.S. DOT) Traffic Volume Trends series
                   of reports; data from previous years from U.S. DOT's Highway Statistics series of reports.




                   · A return to the steady growth in              trends--driving significantly less than
                     per-capita driving that characterized         previous generations of young Ameri-
                     the Driving Boom years is unlikely            cans. Millennials are already the larg-
                     given the aging of the Baby Boom              est generation in the United States and
                     generation, the projected continuation        their choices will play a crucial role
                     of high gas prices, anticipated               in determining future transportation
                     reductions in the percentage of               infrastructure needs.
                     Americans in the labor force, and the
                     peaking of demand for vehicles and            · The Millennials (people born between
                     driver's licenses and the amount of             1983 and 2000) are now the largest
                     time Americans are willing to spend             generation in the United States. By
                     in travel.                                      2030, Millennials will be far and away
                                                                     the largest group in the peak driving
                     The Millennial generation has led               age 35-to-54 year old demographic, and
                   the recent change in transportation               will continue as such through 2040.




 A New Direction
Figure ES-2. Aggregate Vehicle-Miles Traveled in the United States under Several
Scenarios of Future Travel Growth, 1946-2040




· Young people aged 16 to 34 drove 23          transportation options and shifting
  percent fewer miles on average in            the way young Americans relate to
  2009 than they did in 2001--a greater        one another, creating new avenues for
  decline in driving than any other age        living connected, vibrant lives that are
  group. The severe economic recession         less reliant on driving.
  was likely responsible for some of the
  decline, but not all.                     · If the Millennial-led decline in per-
                                              capita driving continues for another
· Millennials are more likely to want         dozen years, even at half the annual
  to live in urban and walkable neigh-        rate of the 2001-2009 period (illus-
  borhoods and are more open to               trated by the Ongoing Decline scenario
  non-driving forms of transportation         in Figure ES-2 above), total vehicle
  than older Americans. They are also         travel in the United States could
  the first generation to fully embrace       remain well below its 2007 peak
  mobile Internet-connected technolo-         through at least 2040--despite a 21
  gies, which are rapidly spawning new        percent increase in population. If



                                                                                          Executive Summary
                     Millennials retain their current pro-         rate near that of recent years or if an-
                     pensity to drive less as they age and         nual per-capita reductions continue
                     future generations follow (Enduring           through 2040.
                     Shift), driving could increase by only
                     7 percent by 2040. If, unexpectedly,        · Regardless of which scenario proves
                     Millennials were to revert to the driv-       true, the amount of driving in the
                     ing patterns of previous generations          United States in 2040 is likely to
                     (Back to the Future), total driving could     be lower than is assumed in recent
                     grow by as much as 24 percent by 2040.        government forecasts. This raises the
                                                                   question of whether changing trends
                   · All three of these scenarios yield far        in driving are being adequately fac-
                     less driving than if the Driving Boom         tored into public policy. (See Figure
                     had continued past 2004. Driving              ES-3.)
                     declines more dramatic than any of
                     these scenarios would result if future         The recent reduction in driving has
                     per-capita driving were to fall at a        already delivered important benefits for



                   Figure ES-3. Recent Official Forecasts of Vehicle Travel Compared to Range of
                   Scenarios, 1946-2040




                     U.S. DOT = U.S. Department of Transportation
                     STIFC = Surface Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission
                     U.S. EIA = U.S. Energy Information Administration




 A New Direction
the nation, while raising new challenges.    · Plan for uncertainty. With future
Future driving trends will have major          driving patterns uncertain, federal,
implications for transportation policy and     state and local transportation officials
other aspects of American life.                should evaluate the costs and benefits
                                               of all transportation projects based on
· Traffic congestion has fallen.               several scenarios of future demand for
  According to data from the Texas             driving. Decision-makers should also
  Transportation Institute, Americans          prioritize those projects that are most
  spent 421 million fewer hours stuck in       likely to deliver benefits under a range
  traffic in 2011 than they did in 2005.       of future circumstances.
  Further reductions in driving could
  lead to additional easing of congestion    · Support the Millennials and other
  without massive investments in new           Americans in their desire to drive
  highway capacity, as long as roads are       less. Federal, state and local poli-
  maintained in a state of good repair.        cies should help create the conditions
                                               under which Americans can fulfill
· America is less dependent on oil. In         their desire to drive less. Increasing
  2011, gasoline consumption for trans-        investments in public transportation,
  portation hit a 10-year low. Further         bicycling and pedestrian infrastruc-
  reductions in driving consistent with        ture and intercity rail--especially
  the Ongoing Decline scenario--coupled        when coupled with regulatory changes
  with expected vehicle fuel economy           to enable the development of walk-
  improvements--could result in the            able neighborhoods--can help provide
  nation using half as much gasoline or        more Americans with a broader range
  other fuels in our cars and trucks by        of transportation options.
  2040 as we use today.
                                             · Revisit plans for new or expanded
· Our roads are getting less use ...           highways. Many highway projects
  but the gas tax is bringing in less          currently awaiting funding were
  income. Reduced vehicle travel (par-         initially conceived of decades ago
  ticularly in large trucks) reduces the       and proposed based on traffic projec-
  wear and tear on our nation's roads,         tions made before the recent decline
  reducing maintenance needs. Reduced          in driving. Local, state and federal
  driving, however, also reduces the           governments should revisit the need
  amount of revenue brought in by the          for these "legacy projects" and ensure
  already-strained gasoline tax.               that proposals for new or expanded
                                               highways are still a priority in light of
   The recent reduction in driving and         recent travel trends.
embrace of less auto-dependent ways of
living by Millennials and others creates     · Refocus the federal role. The federal
a golden opportunity for America to            government should adopt a more
adopt transportation policies that use         strategic role in transportation policy,
resources more efficiently, preserve           focusing resources on key priorities
our existing infrastructure, and provide       (such as repair and maintenance of
support for Americans seeking alterna-         existing infrastructure and the expan-
tives to car travel.                           sion of transportation options) and
   A new vision for transportation             evaluating projects competitively on
policy should:                                 the basis of their benefits to society.




                                                                                           Executive Summary
                   · Use transportation revenue where         · Do our homework. Federal and state
                     it makes the most sense. Trans-            governments should invest in research
                     portation spending decisions should        to evaluate the accuracy and useful-
                     be based on overall priorities and a       ness of transportation models and
                     rigorous evaluation of project costs       better understand changing trans-
                     and benefits--not on the source of the     portation trends in the post-Driving
                     revenue.                                   Boom era.




 A New Direction
                                                               Introduction




N
       o region of the United States is as     here will do anything to avoid gridlock."4
       closely associated with "car culture"   Several other toll roads--some built and
       as Southern California. So much         operated by private corporations--opened
of what Americans associate with the           in the region between the early 1990s and
car--from hot rodding to drive-ins and         late 2000s.
from smog to traffic congestion--either            Far from meeting the initial predictions
began or reached its fullest expression in     of success, however, Southern California's
the region. As early as the mid-1930s, ac-     toll roads have served as a cautionary tale of
cording to one analyst, Los Angeles had        what can happen when millions of dollars
become "America's first thoroughly motor-      are spent on expanded highways ... and the
ized metropolis."1                             cars don't show up.
   Like the rest of America, California            Traffic on Orange County's San Joaquin
experienced rapid growth in driving from       Hills toll road fell short of projections al-
World War II through the turn of the 21st      most immediately after opening--by 2010,
century. The number of miles driven in the     traffic on the road was less than half of what
state doubled between 1981 and 2002--an        had been anticipated.5 Another Orange
average rate of growth of more than 3          County project, the Foothill/Eastern toll
percent per year.2                             road, met expectations until 2008, when
   With all signs in the 1980s pointing        traffic slumped. 6 In San Diego County,
to continued increases in the demand for       the privately built South Bay Expressway,
driving, officials in Southern California      which opened in 2007, fell so far short of
began looking for ways to expand their         its traffic projections that the private enter-
clogged freeway network. In Orange             prise that built and operated the road was
County, officials launched a plan to build     forced into a form of bankruptcy.7
a series of toll roads to ease existing and        These failed predictions have serious
anticipated congestion.3 When the first of     consequences. In Orange County, tolls on
the toll roads opened in 1993, a state sena-   the highways have been raised to among
tor confidently stated that the roads would    the highest in the nation in a grab for rev-
be a success because, "People around           enue. The bonds issued by one of the toll



                                                                                                 Introduction 
                   road authorities have been downgraded to         in the 21st century.
                   junk bond status,8 and an investigation was         The nation needs a new transportation
                   launched in late 2012 of the finances of the     policy--one that embraces the recent
                   local government agencies responsible for        change in driving patterns and seeks to
                   building and operating the Orange County         maximize their benefits. That new trans-
                   highways.9                                       portation policy would accept the fact that
                      Southern California toll roads aren't         future transportation demands are uncer-
                   the only highways getting less traffic these     tain and prioritize investments that would
                   days, either in California or across the         deliver benefits under a broad range of
                   country. After decades of relentless growth      potential futures. It would create a coherent
                   in vehicle travel, Californians are driving      and refocused role for the federal govern-
                   about as much today as they did a decade         ment in ensuring that our transportation
                   ago, mirroring nationwide trends.10              infrastructure is well-maintained and in
                      After roughly a decade of stagnation in       partnering with cities and states that seek
                   driving, it is becoming clear that the rapid     to provide new transportation options
                   increases in per-capita driving that took        to their people. And it would reevaluate
                   place in California and across the nation        whether previous plans for major highway
                   between 1946 and the early 2000s--a              expansion projects still make sense in light
                   period we call the "Driving Boom"--are           of changing trends in driving.
                   over. Yet, transportation policy in the             With the fate of tens of billions of
                   United States has failed to catch up with        dollars in transportation investments at
                   the times, leaving the nation at risk of over-   stake, the time has come for policymakers
                   investing in transportation infrastructure       and the public to understand the seismic
                   that we don't need while under-investing         implications of changing driving trends
                   in the repair of our existing transportation     on transportation policy, and to build a
                   network and the broader range of transpor-       new transportation policy that reflects the
                   tation choices Americans increasingly seek       needs of 21st century America.




 A New Direction
                         The End of the Driving Boom




T
     he Driving Boom--a six decade-long        driven annually on America's roads was
     period of steady increases in per-cap-    approaching 3 trillion--more than double
     ita driving--is now over. Americans       the amount of just three decades earlier.11
drove no more per person in 2012 than we       Between 1970 and 2004, the number of
did at the end of Bill Clinton's first term    miles driven per capita skyrocketed by 85
as president. Many long-term economic          percent--from 5,400 miles per year to just
and demographic trends suggest that the        over 10,000.12
period of prolonged stagnation in vehicle         Rapid increases in driving were so com-
travel may just be beginning.                  monplace during this period--which we
   The recent change in driving trends--       call the "Driving Boom"--as to be consid-
led by young Americans--has huge im-           ered inevitable. Rising traffic congestion
plications for transportation policy. To       (or the threat of it), along with the per-
understand those implications, it is impor-    ceived importance of highways to economic
tant to answer a few basic questions: Why      growth, spurred government officials to
did the Driving Boom happen? Why did it        invest hundreds of billions of dollars in
end? And why is it unlikely to return?         expanded highway capacity. Between 1980
                                               and 2010, the nation expanded its freeway
                                               capacity (measured in lane-miles) by 35
                                               percent, the equivalent of building a new
                                               lane of freeway stretching from New York
                                               to Los Angeles every single year.13
The Rise in Driving from                       Table 1. Average Annual Change in
1946-2004                                      Vehicle Travel, Driving Boom and Post-
Throughout the 20th century--with short        Driving Boom14
interruptions for crises such as wars or en-
                                                                 1946-2004   2004-2012
ergy shocks--the number of miles Ameri-
cans drove each year marched steadily             Total miles        3.8%         0.0%
upward. By 2004, the total number of miles        Miles per capita   2.5%        -1.0%




                                                                                    The End of the Driving Boom
                        New highways, in turn, spurred ad-             Because federal and state governments
                     ditional driving. New off-ramps in previ-      devoted most (and in some cases, all17)
                     ously rural communities fueled sprawling       revenues from drivers to highways--and
                     real estate development in distant suburbs     because most of the nation's existing high-
                     and exurbs consisting largely of housing       ways were still relatively new and did not
                     subdivisions, office parks and shopping        yet require major reconstruction--vast
                     centers, many of them designed so as to        amounts of revenue were available to add
                     be accessible only by automobile. The          new highway capacity. In 2000, for ex-
                     percentage of Americans living in suburbs      ample, even after more than four decades
                     increased from 23 percent in 1950 to 50        of rapid highway construction, 46 percent
                     percent in 2000.15                             of federal highway funding was still being
                        As longer commutes and the need to          spent on new roads and expansion of capac-
                     use a car for virtually every daily task led   ity on existing roads.18
                     to more driving, revenues from the gaso-          This self-reinforcing cycle--new roads
                     line tax increased steadily. Between 1970      fed new development that led to more driv-
                     and 2000, the real value of highway "user      ing, which created more revenue, which
                     fees"--gasoline taxes, vehicle registration    made possible more roads--continued for
                     fees and other taxes and fees paid by driv-    decades.
                     ers--collected by all levels of government        Then, around the turn of the 21st cen-
                     increased by 34 percent.16                     tury, it stopped.

                     Figure 1. Total and Per-Capita Vehicle-Miles Traveled, U.S.19




                      * 2012 data based on U.S. Department of Transportation's (U.S. DOT) Traffic Volume Trends
                      report. Previous years based on U.S. DOT Highway Statistics series of reports.




10 A New Direction
The Crest of the Wave:                            suburbs created a new--and to many, ap-
                                                  pealing--automobile-oriented lifestyle.
Driving Trends in the 21st                        The increased participation of women in
Century                                           the workforce, particularly from the 1960s
By the late 1990s, the rapid rise in vehicle      onward, put millions of new commuters on
travel that characterized the Driving Boom        the roads and changed travel patterns in
began to slow, then stop, and ultimately          fundamental ways. Meanwhile, dramatic
reverse. Americans now drive no more in           improvements in vehicles and the opening
total than they did in 2004 and no more           of shiny new highways enabled Americans
on average than they did at the end of            to increase the number of miles they
Bill Clinton's first term as president. (See      drove without sacrificing time for work
Figure 1.)                                        or leisure.
   The recent reduction in vehicle travel            Each of these changes led more Ameri-
is nearly unprecedented in A merican              cans to take to the roads, helping to fuel the
history.20 The longest previous drop in           dramatic increase in the number of miles
vehicle travel was during World War               driven between World War II and 2004. By
II--a period of gasoline rationing and            the turn of the 21st century, however, these
extraordinary societal disruption. It took        trends had largely played themselves out,
five years and the conclusion of the war          and some had shown signs of beginning to
for 1941 levels of driving to be surpassed        reverse. (See Figure 2, next page.)
again in 1946. The United States has now          Labor Force Participation
gone more than five years since its last          Workers tend to drive more miles than
peak in vehicle travel.21                         non-workers, and the Driving Boom years
                                                  saw a dramatic expansion in the share of
                                                  the American population taking part in
                                                  the labor force. Between 1970 and 2000,
                                                  the share of Americans in the labor force
Why the Driving Boom Is                           increased from just over 60 percent to a
                                                  peak of 67.3 percent.23 Since 2000, how-
Over ... and Why it's not                         ever, the share of Americans in the labor
Coming Back                                       force has dropped to 63.6 percent, a level
There are many reasons to believe that            roughly equal to that of 1979.24 The drop
driving per-capita has peaked, at least for       in labor force participation began well be-
the foreseeable future, signaling the end of      fore the current recession and is expected
the Driving Boom. While the total number          to continue well beyond it, largely due to
of miles driven on American roads may             the aging of the Baby Boom generation. A
inch upwards over time with population            2011 Congressional Budget Office report
growth, the pace of that increase in vehicle      projected that the participation rate would
travel--if it occurs at all--will be far slower   drop to 63 percent by 2021.25
than during the Driving Boom years.               Vehicle Ownership
                                                  People who have greater access to a vehicle
Saturated with Driving                            could be expected to drive more frequently
In the decades after World War II, ris-           than those with less access--even in situ-
ing incomes put automobile ownership              ations where they might otherwise walk,
within reach of an increasing number of           take transit, or not travel at all. During the
Americans. The construction of new high-          Driving Boom, the number of Americans
ways and development of new low-density           who owned cars increased dramatically. In




                                                                                        The End of the Driving Boom 11
                     Figure 2. Trends in Driver's Licensing, Vehicle Ownership and Labor Force
                     Participation Rate22




                     1972, the number of vehicles registered in     little room for further increase. Since then,
                     the United States exceeded the number of       however, the percentage of driving-age (16
                     people licensed to drive them for the first    and older) Americans holding driver's li-
                     time.26 Over the next three decades, the       censes has stagnated and then declined--by
                     ratio of vehicles to licensed drivers con-     2011, 86 percent of driving-age Americans
                     tinued to increase, reaching a peak of 1.24    held driver's licenses, the lowest percentage
                     vehicles per driver in 2006. Since 2006,       in 30 years.27
                     however, vehicle ownership per licensed
                                                                    Time Spent in Travel
                     driver has declined by 4 percent, suggest-
                                                                    Highway expansion and vehicle improve-
                     ing that Americans may have reached a
                                                                    ments during the Driving Boom years
                     limit in the number of vehicles they can
                                                                    meant that Americans could go farther,
                     beneficially use.
                                                                    faster, and in greater comfort than ever
                     Driver's Licensing                             before. Improvements in average highway
                     Increasing vehicle ownership was matched       travel speeds continued right up through
                     in the Driving Boom years by an increasing     the 1980s, making it possible for Ameri-
                     share of the population holding a license to   cans to live or work in ever-more distant
                     drive. By 1992, 90 percent of the driving-     suburbs or exurbs without losing precious
                     age population of the United States was        work or family time. Since the early 1990s,
                     licensed to drive--an all-time high with       however, travel speeds (at least for commute



12 A New Direction
trips) have slowed.28 Barring major techno-     Demographics:
logical advances, there are few prospects       The Graying of America
for a repeat of the quantum leap in travel
speeds that occurred during the Driving         The Driving Boom coincided, in large
Boom.29                                         measure, with the lives of those born in
   This finding is important because            the Baby Boom--the massive demographic
some transportation theorists believe that      bubble consisting of those born between
there are inherent--if difficult to define--    1946 and 1964. The passage of the Baby
boundaries to the average amount of time        Boomers through their peak working and
each day that people are willing to spend in    child-rearing years turbocharged the trend
travel.30 This limit is thought to be in the    toward increased driving--especially be-
range of 1.1 to 1.3 hours per day.31 In 2011,   tween the 1980s and 2000s.
Americans spent an average of 1.17 hours           Driving is an activity that is highly
a day in travel, slightly less time than they   dependent on one's stage of life. People in
had spent in travel in 2005.32                  their prime earning and child-rearing years
   In short, Americans may be hitting the       tend to drive the most, as they commute
limit of the amount of time they are willing    to jobs, shuttle children to activities, and
to spend in their cars each day--meaning        often opt to live in more spacious suburban
that, unless travel speeds increase, they       communities that are also more auto-de-
may be hitting the limit of the number of       pendent. Younger people and older people,
miles they are willing to drive each day        on the other hand, are less likely to drive.
as well.                                        (See Figure 3.)


Figure 3. Vehicle Miles Traveled per Licensed Driver by Age, 200933




                                                                                    The End of the Driving Boom 13
                        Regardless of other trends, therefore,        2020 it is projected to fall further to 24.8
                     the greater the share of Americans in the        percent. In fact, despite overall population
                     peak driving-age 35-to-54 age group, the         growth, there are projected to be fewer 35
                     more one can expect per-capita vehicle           to 54 year-olds in total in 2020 than there
                     travel, as averaged across the entire popula-    were in either 2010 or 2000.
                     tion, to increase. In the latter years of the       At the same time, the share of population
                     Driving Boom, the percentage of Ameri-           in the 65 and older age bracket is projected
                     cans in the peak driving-age demographic         to increase dramatically between now and
                     increased rapidly. By 2000, 35 to 54 year-       2040. In 1980, seniors 65 and older made
                     olds accounted for 29.5 percent of the U.S.      up 11 percent of the population; by 2040,
                     population, up from 25.3 percent of the          their share of the population is expected to
                     population in 1990 and 21.4 percent of the       roughly double to 21 percent.35
                     population in 1980. (See Figure 4.)                 A greater share of Americans, therefore,
                        The Baby Boom generation is now pass-         will soon be in age groups that have histori-
                     ing through the prime driving years and          cally driven fewer miles. This demographic
                     heading toward retirement. By 2010, the          shift can be expected to reduce the number
                     share of Americans in the 35 to 54 year-         of miles driven per capita when averaged
                     old age bracket fell to 27.9 percent and by      across the entire population.


                     Figure 4. Shares of U.S. Population by Age Group34




                     The share of Americans in their peak driving years (age 35-54) is shown in dark blue. Between
                     1980 and 2000, the share of Americans in the peak driving demographic ballooned from 21.4
                     percent of the population to 29.5 percent, as the Baby Boomers reached peak driving age. With
                     the Baby Boom generation now headed toward retirement, the share of Americans in the peak
                     driving age group is projected to decline to 24.8 percent by 2020.




14 A New Direction
Figure 5. Average Annual Regular Grade Gasoline Prices, United States, Nominal
and Real (Adjusted for Inflation)38




(P)=Projected




Economics:                                     historical levels, which would tend to
The Sustained Rise in                          depress vehicle travel. However, trends in
Gasoline Prices                                gasoline prices may become less important
The cost of driving has gone up dramati-       over time as vehicle fuel economy improves
cally in the last decade. Between 2002 and     and alternative fuel vehicles become more
2011, the average inflation-adjusted price     common on American roads.
of a gallon of gasoline doubled.36
   The cost of gasoline has both short- and    Rising Use of Transit and Other
long-term impacts on the amount people         Transportation Modes
drive. In the short term, people may pass up   Another contributing factor to the recent
the opportunity to take certain trips due to   decline in driving has been the increasing
high prices. The perception of higher gaso-    eagerness of many Americans to choose
line prices in the long-term, meanwhile,       other modes of transportation--light rail,
can cause people to reorient their lives to    buses, trains, bicycles or walking--for trips
avoid the expense of fuel--for example, by     they might once have taken by car. Indeed,
moving closer to their work or purchasing      while driving has been stagnant or declin-
a more fuel-efficient car.37                   ing in recent years, the use of nearly all of
   U.S. government forecasters project that    these other modes of transportation has
gasoline prices will remain well above         increased. (continued, page 18)




                                                                                    The End of the Driving Boom 15
                     Implications of Changing Driving Trends:
                     The View from the Pacific Northwest
                     By Clark Williams-Derry, Sightline Institute



                     T  he Pacific Northwest was well ahead of the curve in the national trend toward
                        reduced driving and fuel consumption. Out here in the land of mist and mountains,
                     gasoline consumption plateaued way back in 1999.43 (See Figure 6.) Total vehicle
                     travel on Washington and Oregon's state highways flattened out in 2002.44 And, after
                     factoring in population growth, gas consumption per resident in the two states has
                     now fallen to its lowest level since 1964--a dramatic decline, though one that has
                     received surprisingly little attention from the region's policy-makers.45


                     Figure 6. Gasoline Consumption in Oregon and Washington46




                       Because driving slumped here before it did in the rest of the nation, we're among
                     the first to confront the fiscal fallout of stagnating gas tax revenues.
                       Like many states across the country, Washington and Oregon financed highway
                     expansion by floating bonds, intending to pay for highway construction by tapping




16 A New Direction
into ever-growing fuel tax collections anticipated in the future. But flat-lining gas
tax receipts have driven the region's transportation officials into a panic. Oregon
recently announced that flat or declining revenue from the gasoline tax, coupled
with rising debt payments, decreased federal funding, and increasing construction
costs, could force deep cuts in the state's transportation budget in the next several
years.47
    Washington is in even worse shape. After years of denial, the state recently slashed
long-term revenue forecasts by billions of dollars.48 But since the state back-loaded
interest payments on many of its highway bonds, its debt obligations will rise even
if fuel tax receipts dip. Within just a few years, more than 70 percent of the state's
gas tax receipts will go to pay off debts on projects that have already been com-
pleted--leaving precious little gas tax revenue for maintenance of existing roads,
let alone new construction.49
    Both Oregon and Washington have flirted with tolling to finance new high-
ways--gambling that drivers who are reluctant to pay for expensive gas will prove
willing to pay costly tolls instead. Washington took a foray into toll-financed con-
struction on the Tacoma Narrows Bridge. But the fiscal outlook for the project is
grim. Traffic across the new span has fallen,50 rather than growing as anticipated,51
leaving a widening gap between toll collections and the rising payments for con-
struction debt. At the same time, a high-occupancy toll (HOT) lane pilot project
southeast of Seattle has generated far less revenue than hoped.52 And the state has
been forced to slash its projected toll revenue from a tunnel project under downtown
Seattle; the state now expects to raise at most $200 million in tolls53 towards a $4
billion project.54
    In short, Washington's and Oregon's transportation agencies are speeding towards
a fiscal cliff of their own making. If anything, they're stepping on the accelerator
by continuing to move forward with costly megaprojects--wider highways, bigger
bridges and a budget-busting tunnel--that the states don't need and can't afford.
    One obvious solution to the Northwest's transportation finance crisis is to cancel,
or at least downsize, some of these megaprojects. (Who needs bigger highways if
traffic isn't growing?) Yet so far, transportation officials see flat-lining traffic simply
as the cause of a funding shortfall, rather than an opportunity to rethink the region's
road construction priorities.
    It took the Northwest states nearly a decade to accept that a sea change in car
travel trends had sown the seeds of a transportation revenue crisis. Let's hope it
doesn't take another decade to accept that the best solution to that crisis is to scale
back our highway-building ambitions, so that they match both our financial means
and our newly restrained driving habits.

Sightline Institute is an independent, nonprofit research and communications center based in
Seattle, dedicated to making the Pacific Northwest a global model of sustainability --strong
communities, a green economy and a healthy environment.




                                                                                        The End of the Driving Boom 17
                     Table 2. Factors that Influence Driving: Past, Present and Future55 (Green = Indicates
                     Higher Per-Capita Driving, Yellow=Neutral, Stable or Unknown, Red=Indicates Lower
                     Per-Capita Driving)


                                         Driving Boom              Recent           Future

                       Labor Force    Rapid increases      Declining                Declining due to
                       Participation  due to increased                              Baby Boomer
                       Rate           participation of                              retirements
                                      women, demographic
                                      bubble
                       
                       Speed of       Increasing due to    Stable or                Unlikely to improve
                       Automobile     highway and vehicle  declining                in the absence of
                       Travel         improvements                                  major technological
                                                                                    changes

                       Share of       Steadily increasing  Declining                Declining in short term,
                       Population of  due to Baby Boom                              increasing slowly
                       Peak Driving                                                 thereafter, but not
                       Age (35-54)                                                  above previous
                                                                                    Baby Boom peak

                       Cost of   Mostly stable    Increasing,                       Projected to
                       Gasoline  and low          followed by                       remain high
                                                  relative
                                                  stability at
                                                  higher level
                       
                       Vehicle   Increasing to    Stable or                         Unknown, but potential
                       Ownership near-universal   declining                         for further growth above
                                 vehicle ownership                                  historic, near-saturation
                                                                                    highs is limited

                       Driver's          Increasing to  Declining                   Unknown, but unlikely
                       Licensing         near-universal                             to exceed previous peak
                                         licensure

                       Use of       Dramatically    Increasing                      Unknown, though
                       Non-Driving  decreasing, then                                demand for transit
                       Modes        stagnant                                        among younger and
                                                                                    older Americans
                                                                                    could be expected to
                                                                                    increase



                         In 2011, Americans took nearly 10 per-     tion survey of transit agencies found that
                     cent--or 900 million--more trips via pub-      more than half had either increased fares
                     lic transportation than they had in 2005.39    or cut service since the beginning of 2010,
                     That growth in transit use continued           while more than 20 percent of the agencies
                     through 2012, despite reductions in service    had both raised fares and cut service.41
                     and increases in fares in many cities in          Public transportation isn't the only
                     the wake of the Great Recession.40 A 2011      non-automobile mode to experience an
                     American Public Transportation Associa-        increase in recent years. For example, the



18 A New Direction
number of workers commuting to work
by bike increased by 39 percent between
                                               Summary
                                               The Driving Boom of the second half of
2005 and 2011, while the number of people
                                               the 20th century coincided with rapid eco-
commuting on foot increased by 20 percent
                                               nomic, cultural and demographic changes
between 2005 and 2009.42
                                               in the United States. Those changes largely
   In addition, in recent years, advances in
                                               pointed in the same direction: toward a
mobile technology have enabled a range
                                               more automobile-oriented society.
of new transportation options--from bike
                                                  Many of those trends, however, have
sharing to car sharing to ride sharing--to
                                               either reached their natural limits or have
take root in an increasing number of cities.
                                               reversed direction. (See Table 2.) A review
(See page 26.) It is too soon to determine
                                               of those trends points to the conclusion
how these new options might change trans-
                                               that the trajectory toward increased per-
portation behaviors over the long term,
                                               capita driving that prevailed during the
but they create the potential for further
                                               Driving Boom has likely reached its end,
changes in transportation habits that could
                                               and that the levels of per-capita driving
affect overall demand for driving in the
                                               achieved in the early 2000s are unlikely to
years to come.
                                               be surpassed in the foreseeable future.




                                                                                  The End of the Driving Boom 19
                     What Comes Next? How the
                     Millennials Will Determine
                     the Future of Transportation


                     T
                          ransportation infrastructure lasts for    will represent the vast majority of the
                          decades. The investments we make          members of that age group. As a result, the
                          in transportation infrastructure,         evolving driving behaviors of the Millen-
                     therefore, must be based on anticipated        nials will be a key determinant of whether
                     future needs at least as much as the needs     the trend toward stagnating vehicle travel
                     of today.                                      will continue, reverse or even accelerate in
                        For decades, transportation planners        the years to come.
                     have assumed that economic and popu-
                     lation growth would create continuous
                     increases in demand for driving, necessitat-
                     ing new and ever-wider highways to allevi-        Defining the
                     ate the crippling congestion that was sure        Generations
                     to follow. Over the last decade, though,
                     those anticipated increases in driving have
                     failed to materialize.
                        The degree to which driving will in-
                                                                       T  here is no standard definition of
                                                                          generational boundaries. In this
                                                                       report, generations are defined as
                     crease in the future depends crucially on         follows:
                     the Millennial generation--otherwise
                     known as "Generation Y"--those born               · Baby Boomers: those born
                     between 1983 and 2000. In 2010, the Mil-            between 1946 and 1964
                     lennials surpassed the Baby Boomers as            · Generation X: those born
                     the largest generation in the United States,        between 1965 and 1982
                     with the more than 77 million members of          · Millennials (Generation Y):
                     the Millennial generation accounting for            those born between 1983
                     nearly one in four Americans.56                     and 2000
                        By the end of this decade, Millennials
                     will begin moving into what has tradition-        · Generation Z: those born
                     ally been the peak driving age (35 to 54            after 2000.
                     year-old) demographic, and by 2030 they



20 A New Direction
The New Transportation                           While young Americans are driving less
                                              than they did at the beginning of the 2000s,
Habits of the Millennials                     they have increased their use of other forms
No age group has experienced a greater        of transportation. In 2009, 16 to 34 year-
change in its driving habits than young       olds as a whole took 24 percent more total
Americans.                                    bike trips than they took in 2001, despite
   According to the National Household        the age group actually shrinking in size by
Travel Survey, from 2001 and 2009, the        2 percent. From 2001 to 2009, the number
annual number of vehicle-miles traveled by    of passenger-miles traveled per capita by 16
16 to 34 year-olds (a group that included a   to 34 year-olds on public transit increased
mix of Millennials and younger members        by 40 percent.59
of Generation X) decreased from 10,300           Why are Millennials driving less? The
miles to 7,900 miles per capita--a drop of    economy is likely one factor. The reces-
23 percent.57 (See "Generation X Has Also     sion has been particularly difficult for
Reduced its Driving," next page.)             young Americans--reducing job prospects,
   The percentage of young people with        curtailing disposable income, and causing
a driver's license has been dropping for      many young people to delay forming new
years. In 2011, the percentage of 16 to 24    households.
year-olds with driver's licenses dipped to       However, there are a number of compel-
67 percent--the lowest percentage since       ling reasons to believe that the economy is
at least 1963.58                              not the only factor at play:



Figure 7. Percentage of 16 to 24-Year-Olds with Driver's Licenses58




                                                                                             What Comes Next? 21
                        Generation X Has Also Reduced its Driving

                        R   ecent changes in transportation behavior among members of the Millennial gen-
                            eration have attracted great notice, and for good reason--the changes in driving
                        patterns in the United States have been most dramatic among the Millennials, and
                        as America's largest generation, the preferences and habits of the Millennials have
                        the greatest implications for the future.
                           However, Millennials were not the only Americans to reduce the number of miles
                        they drove during the 2000s. Members of Generation X (those born between 1965
                        and 1982) also experienced declines in per-capita driving. Among younger "Gen
                        X'ers" between 30 and 34 years of age in 2009, per-capita driving fell by 17 percent
                        relative to drivers of a similar age in 2001, with a similar decline among those 35
                        to 39 years of age. The oldest members of Generation X--those between 40 and
                        44 years of age in 2009--experienced only a slight 3 percent decline in per-capita
                        driving relative to 2001.60




                     · Driving started to decline before            · New limits have been imposed on
                       the start of the recession: The trend          young drivers: Between 1996 and
                       toward reduced per-capita VMT                  2006, every state one but one enacted
                       began long before the recent reces-            a Graduated Driver's Licensing
                       sion. Per-capita vehicle travel peaked         law.62 These laws impose restric-
                       in 2004, while the recent recession did        tions on young drivers, limiting the
                       not begin until the fall of 2007.              conditions under which new drivers
                                                                      may operate a vehicle and imposing
                     · Driving has fallen among those                 additional costs, thereby discourag-
                       with jobs: Among young people, per-            ing driving.
                       capita driving declined among both
                       those with jobs and those without               The recent recession no doubt reduced
                       them between 2001 and 2009. Among            the number of miles young Americans
                       16 to 34 year-olds with jobs, per-capi-      drove, but the economy is clearly not the
                       ta vehicle travel declined by 16 percent     only factor at play. Members of the Mil-
                       during that time span.61                     lennial generation have expressed a greater
                                                                    willingness to pursue less auto-oriented
                     · Driving and economic growth have             lifestyles than previous generations, and
                       diverged: After moving in lock-              have been the first to grow up with ac-
                       step for decades, trends in economic         cess to the mobile Internet-connected
                       growth and growth in vehicle travel          technologies that are reshaping society
                       have diverged in recent years, with          and how people connect with one another.
                       per-capita GDP generally growing             These changes could be playing a role in
                       faster than per-capita vehicle travel        the dramatic reduction in driving among
                       since the late 1990s, suggesting that        young Americans.
                       economic growth and vehicle travel
                       are no longer as closely correlated as
                       they once seems to be. (See Figure 8.)



22 A New Direction
Figure 8. Trends in Per-Capita Vehicle-Miles Traveled and Real Gross Domestic Product 63




For decades, economic growth and vehicle travel were closely correlated. Since the beginning
of the 21st century, however, economic growth and vehicle travel have diverged, suggesting a
weakening link between the state of the economy and the number of miles Americans drive.




Transportation and Lifestyle                    Realtors, conducted in March 2011, 62
                                                percent of people ages 18-29 said they
Preferences of the                              would prefer to live in an area described as
Millennials                                     having a mix of single family houses, apart-
In survey after survey, Millennials express     ments and condominiums, with stores,
preferences for housing and transportation      restaurants, libraries, schools and access
that differ--sometimes markedly--with           to public transportation nearby, than in a
those of older generations.                     sprawl-style neighborhood. The percent-
                                                age of young people who preferred to live
Walkable Neighborhoods                          in mixed-use, walkable neighborhoods
Millennials are twice as likely as Baby         was between four and 11 points higher
Boomers and Generation X'ers to express         than that of all other age groups.69 Nearly
a desire to live in a city. 68 According to     two-thirds of Millennials surveyed for an
a survey by the National Association for        Urban Land Institute report in 2011 said




                                                                                               What Comes Next? 23
                     Implications of Changing Driving Trends:
                     The View from Wisconsin
                     By Bruce Speight, WISPIRG Foundation



                     W     isconsin continues to spend heavily on new road capacity and highway expan-
                           sion, despite the fact that Wisconsinites are driving less.
                        The average Wisconsinite drove nearly 500 fewer miles in 2010 than in 2004,
                     when total and per-capita VMT peaked. Yet, Wisconsin's transportation spending
                     plans and recent state budgets have been tone deaf to these emerging trends. A
                     January 2013 WISPIRG Foundation report found that Wisconsin has committed
                     a disproportionately large amount of its planned spending to building new and
                     wider highways. Wisconsin ranked 11th among the 50 states in the percentage of
                     funds it is committing to new road capacity, with 30 percent of its State Trans-
                     portation Improvement Plan (STIP) designated for new capacity, compared to a
                     national average of 20 percent.64 Those investment choices appear strange, not
                     only because of the recent reductions in driving but also because Wisconsin's
                     population is expected to grow much more slowly than the U.S. population over
                     the next several decades.65
                        The trends hardly justify diverting limited transportation resources from other
                     transit and repair needs to major highway expansion projects. But that is exactly what
                     state leaders have done. In the 2011-2013 biennial budget, state leaders increased
                     the major highway budget by nearly 10 percent, while decreasing state funding for
                     transit systems by 10 percent, as well as cutting funding for local road repair.
                        Major components of Wisconsin's transportation system are crumbling and in
                     some cases inadequate. According to a 2008 report, 43 percent of Wisconsin's roads
                     were rated as being in "less than good" condition, and 1,142 structurally deficient
                     bridges in Wisconsin stood in need of repair in 2010. Drivers in Wisconsin pay an
                     average of an extra $281 per year in vehicle operating costs due to the poor condi-
                     tion of our roads and bridges.66
                        Shrinking transit systems, meanwhile, are leaving Wisconsinites with fewer
                     options for travel. With state budget cuts to transit agencies, local transit systems
                     are increasingly cutting service, raising fares, or both. A University of Wisconsin
                     Milwaukee study found that in Milwaukee, bus service miles have been reduced
                     by nearly 20 percent since 2001. As a result, tens of thousands of jobs have become
                     inaccessible to Milwaukee residents, making economic recovery more difficult for
                     both the city and the state.67
                        The time has come to reevaluate the state's transportation planning process
                     to ensure that transportation investments reflect population, demographic and
                     transportation trends.

                     WISPIRG Foundation is a non-profit organization that works to protect consumers and
                     promote good government.




24 A New Direction
that walkability was essential (14 percent)
or preferable (50 percent) in their housing
                                                 The Mobile Technology
choices.70                                       Revolution, Millennials and
                                                 Transportation
Changing Values and Preferences                  The use of mobile, Internet-connected
According to a recent survey by KRC              technology has increased at almost in-
Research and Zipcar, 44 percent of young         comprehensible speed. As recently as
people (18-34 years old) polled said they        October 2010, according to the Nielsen
have consciously made an effort to replace       market research firm, only 29 percent of
driving with other transportation op-            all mobile phones in the United States
tions--this is compared with 33 percent of       were smartphones.76 Less than two years
those aged 35 to 44 and 26 percent of those      later, that figure had nearly doubled to
55 years old and up.71 A survey conducted        55.5 percent.77
by RCLCO in 20 major metropolitan areas              No generation has adopted high-tech
found that 20 percent of Millennials would       lifestyles as quickly or as enthusiastically
consider giving up a car as an unjustified       as the Millennials. Internet use is near uni-
expense, a far higher percentage than other      versal among Millennials, with 95 percent
generations.72                                   of 18 to 29 year-olds using the Internet
                                                 compared to 52 percent of those 65 years
Fading Car Culture                               old and up.78 Two-thirds of young adults (18
Mobile communications and computers              to 29) own smartphones, compared with
have supplanted cars as the most important       45 percent of the population overall.79 Cell
technology in the lives of Millennials. Ac-      phone owners between the ages of 18 and
cording to a survey conducted for Zipcar,        24 exchange more than 100 text messages
35 percent of those aged 18 to 34 believe        per day on average, compared with 41 for
that losing their computer would have the        the population as a whole.80
greatest negative impact on them, with 30            Technology has created revolutionary
percent saying that loss of their mobile         changes in Millennials' social and eco-
phone would be most negative. Only 28            nomic lives. Three-quarters
                                                                                  of 18 to 24
percent said the same thing about their          year-olds were using social networking by
car. Baby Boomers ranked these choices           December 2008, a time when less than one-
in the opposite order, with nearly half of       third of Americans over the age of 35 were
those aged 55 and up reporting that losing       using the technology.137 A survey by com-
their car would have the greatest negative       puter networking equipment maker Cisco
impact on their life, while 31 percent said      in 2012 found that two-thirds of college
the same thing about their computer and          students and young professionals spend at
only 7 percent said their mobile phone.73        least as much time with friends online as
Nearly two out of three college students         they do in person.81 Young people report
responding to a 2011 survey by computer          being more likely to purchase items online
networking company Cisco said that they          rather than traveling to a store, and more
would choose an Internet connection over         likely to choose to spend time with friends
access to a car.74                               online than driving to see them.82
   Millennials are also less likely to express       The spread of mobile, Internet-connect-
an interest in automobiles as a hobby or         ed technology has the potential to change
cultural phenomenon: less than 15 percent        transportation just as it has changed other
of Millennials describe themselves as "car       aspects of society. Specifically:
enthusiasts" as opposed to 30 percent of
Baby Boomers.75



                                                                                                 What Comes Next? 25
                     · Mobile technology makes                       · Mobile technologies can substitute
                       non-driving travel options more                 directly for driving. Telework, e-
                       appealing. Mobile technology can                shopping, social networking, telecon-
                       remove many of the day-to-day bar-              ferencing and distance education all
                       riers that dissuade people--especially          have the potential to substitute for
                       casual users--from using public trans-          trips that might once have been made
                       portation. New mobile apps allow                by car. Research on the impact of
                       transit riders to obtain real-time in-          activities such as telework and e-shop-
                       formation on arrivals and departures,           ping on vehicle travel has been mixed,
                       gain assistance with route and sched-           though most studies suggest that tele-
                       ule planning, and even pay fares by             work leads to a reduction in VMT.85
                       smartphone. Because these tools are
                       relatively new, there is little research         Unsurprisingly, Millennials have been
                       on their impact on transit utilization,       the most likely to report having used these
                       though a recent study found that the          new, technology-enabled alternatives. Ac-
                       launch of real-time bus information in        cording to the recent Zipcar survey cited
                       Chicago had led to a modest increase          above, 25 percent of those aged 18 to 34
                       in bus ridership.83                           reported that mobile transportation apps
                                                                     (such as taxi apps, real-time transit infor-
                      Mobile technology also allows transit          mation and car sharing) had reduced their
                      riders to engage in recreational or job-       driving frequency, compared with only 9
                      related activities while riding--some-         percent of those 55 years of age and older.86
                      thing that is difficult and dangerous          People who use these apps quickly come
                      to do while driving--and provides              to rely on them--when a popular bus-
                      pedestrians and bicyclists with access         tracking application in Washington, D.C.,
                      to navigational information, including         ceased functioning in December 2012,
                      the location of nearby stores, transit         the company's in-box was quickly flooded
                      stops and other amenities.                     with more than 7,000 angry e-mails from
                                                                     customers.87
                     · Mobile technologies enable new
                       transportation options. The past
                       several years have seen an explosion
                       of new transportation alternatives
                       that rely on the Internet or mobile
                       technologies. Several varieties of car        Summary
                       sharing, bike sharing, taxi-booking           Millennials are demonstrating significantly
                       services, and real-time ride sharing          different lifestyle and transportation pref-
                       have come onto the scene. Again, with         erences than older generations. They drive
                       the exception of traditional car shar-        less on average than previous generations
                       ing (which has become mainstream              of young people. More of them say they
                       and has been shown to reduce vehicle          wish to live in cities and walkable neigh-
                       travel84) it is too early to tell if any of   borhoods. And more of them are drawn to
                       these new transportation options will         forms of transportation other than driving.
                       gain broad acceptance or make a sig-          Moreover, the Millennials are the first gen-
                       nificant impact on vehicle travel. Each       eration whose lifestyles are shaped by the
                       of them, however, create new options          availability of mobile, Internet-connected
                       that travelers can use to reduce the          technologies, social media, and the innova-
                       need to own a personal vehicle.               tive forms of social connection, commerce




26 A New Direction
and mobility that those technologies are         driving--with massive implications for
spawning.                                        transportation policy.
   There is a chance that the differences           How could the changing driving be-
in transportation and lifestyle habits cur-      haviors of the Millennials and subsequent
rently demonstrated by Millennials may           generations affect overall demand for
fade as they age. But it is also possible that   driving? And what implications would
cultural changes and advances in mobile          those changes have on transportation
technology will continue or even accel-          policy? The next two sections address
erate Millennials' transition away from          those questions.




                                                                                             What Comes Next? 27
                     Americans Will Drive Less than
                     Was Predicted a Few Years Ago.
                     How Much Less Is Uncertain.


                     T
                          he maturing Millennials play a pro-       implications of various "what ifs" of future
                          found role in determining America's       trends. Scenarios are not predictions of the
                          future transportation needs. It is too    future, but rather visions of possible futures
                     soon to tell whether their desire for less     that may unfold.89
                     auto-intensive lifestyles will persist or         In this report, we present three simpli-
                     even grow over time. It is increasingly        fied scenarios of future trends in driving up
                     clear, however, that Americans will likely     to 2040 as a means to consider the possible
                     drive far fewer miles in the future than       implications for transportation policy of
                     government agencies forecast even a few        various pathways. All three scenarios are
                     years ago. That conclusion has powerful        built on a common set of population projec-
                     ramifications for transportation policy in     tions and demographic assumptions from
                     the years to come.                             the Census Bureau. (See "Methodology"
                                                                    for the full details on how the scenarios
                                                                    were constructed.)
                                                                       In comparison to recent trends in ve-
                                                                    hicle-miles traveled per capita, the three
                                                                    scenarios are all quite conservative. None
                     Three Scenarios of Future                      portray the possibility that per-capita driv-
                     Driving                                        ing might continue to decline at the annual
                     One way to understand the potential            pace it did for specific age cohorts between
                     implications of changing driving trends        2001 and 2009, much less accelerate. Nor
                     is through the use of scenario analysis.       does any scenario portray a future in which
                     According to one definition, "A scenario       per-capita driving continues to fall for
                     is a tool for ordering one's perceptions       any age cohort after 2025. The amount of
                     about alternative future environments in       vehicle travel under scenarios with more
                     which today's decisions might be played        aggressive or persistent reductions would
                     out."88 Scenario analysis enables the public   fall far below any of those represented here,
                     and policy makers to assess the likely         with far more dramatic consequences.




28 A New Direction
Back to the Future                              reduction in driving as they age that they
The Back to the Future scenario assumes         experienced relative to the previous cohort
that the decline in driving in the United       of drivers their age between 2001 and 2009.
States since 2004 is a temporary "blip,"        For example, if 20 year-old males in 2009
not a lasting trend. It is consistent with a    drove 20 percent less than 20 year-old
worldview that attributes the recent decline    males did in 2001, it is assumed that eleven
in driving largely to economic factors (such    years later in 2020 they will similarly drive
as slower economic growth and higher gas        20 percent less than 31-year-old males did
prices) and assumes that those conditions       in 2001. Similarly, it is assumed that in 2030
will fully reverse. The Back to the Future      this same cohort will drive 20 percent less
scenario is consistent with a world in which    than 41-year old males did in 2001. New
the housing and transportation preferences      drivers are assumed to reduce their driving
of Millennials increasingly come to mimic       (relative to 2001 per-capita driving levels
those of previous generations, economic         by age) by the same percentage as 16 -to-
growth returns to its brisk pace of the late    24 -year-olds did between 2001 and 2009.
20th century, and the net effect of mobile,     Thus, a 20year-old male in 2020 or 2030
Internet-connected technology on demand         will drive approximately the same amount
for driving is minimal to non-existent. We      as a member of this cohort did in 2009.
represent the Back to the Future scenario by
assuming that driving among members of          Ongoing Decline
a particular age group and sex will return      The Ongoing Decline scenario assumes
to that group's per-capita driving levels of    that the decline in driving that has taken
2004 by 2020 and continue at those levels       place over the last decade is the begin-
thereafter.                                     ning of a deeper change in transportation
                                                patterns. The Ongoing Decline scenario is
Enduring Shift                                  consistent with a worldview in which the
The Enduring Shift scenario assumes             recent change in driving patterns among
that the shift in driving behaviors that has    young people is but the start of a broader
occurred over the last decade is real and       shift--driven by changes in technology
lasting. It is consistent with a worldview in   and consumer preferences--that makes
which the shift in housing preferences to-      driving a less necessary or desirable task
ward walkable neighborhoods and embrace         for daily living than it has been in the
of a broader range of transportation choices    recent past. The Ongoing Decline scenario
by Millennials and others persists as they      may also represent a world in which exter-
age and is adopted by future generations as     nal factors--such as dramatically higher
they reach driving age. The Enduring Shift      gasoline prices, increased concern about
scenario represents a world in which the        the environment, or prolonged economic
cost of gasoline continues to remain high, a    malaise--will increase the level of urgency
revival of economic growth does not result      for individuals to find alternatives to auto-
in a proportional increase in vehicle travel,   oriented lifestyles. This scenario does not
and changes due to advances in mobile,          suggest that driving will become obsolete
Internet-connected technology continue          for Americans, but rather that it will stabi-
to alter patterns of vehicle ownership and      lize at a much lower level per-capita after a
reduce per-capita driving, but only to the      period of additional change.
degree they have already done so.                  We represent the Ongoing Decline sce-
   We represent the Enduring Shift scenario     nario by assuming that the percentage re-
by assuming that drivers in each age and sex    duction in driving behavior experienced by
cohort retain the same relative size of their   each cohort during the eight years between




                                                                       Americans Will Drive Less than Was Predicted 29
                     2001 and 2009 will be replicated over the     still increase at a slower rate than in the
                     16 years between 2009 and 2025, and that      past. Ultimately, VMT would increase by
                     new drivers will drive even less than young   24 percent by 2040. In the Enduring Shift
                     drivers did in 2009.                          scenario, overall VMT remains roughly at
                                                                   today's levels through the mid-2020s before
                                                                   rising again (though at a slower rate than in
                                                                   previous decades) as Millennials hit peak
                                                                   driving age, resulting in an 7 percent in-
                     Implications of Possible                      crease in VMT in 2040. That 7 percent in-
                                                                   crease in VMT compares with a 21 percent
                     Futures                                       increase in population over the same time
                     The three scenarios do not represent          span. In the Ongoing Decline scenario, total
                     predictions of the future. Rather, they are   VMT declines steadily through the mid-
                     intended to illustrate a range of plausible   2020s--bottoming out at a level roughly
                     outcomes.                                     19 percent below the peak VMT of 2007.
                        As can be seen in Figure 9, the Back to    VMT remains roughly stable thereafter
                     the Future scenario would result in a rapid   and fails to ever regain its 2007 peak by the
                     return to overall VMT growth, though,         end of the study period in 2040.
                     due to demographic shifts, driving would         These three scenarios represent dra-


                     Figure 9. Vehicle-Miles Traveled under the Three Scenarios, 1946-2040




30 A New Direction
Figure 10. Recent Government Forecasts Compared with the Three Scenarios of VMT,
1946-2040




U.S. DOT = U.S. Department of Transportation
STIFC = Surface Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission
U.S. EIA = U.S. Energy Information Administration


matically different visions of the future.      mean that the Enduring Shift scenario is
By 2040, the difference in VMT among            most likely to represent future driving
the three scenarios reaches nearly 1.3 tril-    trends. It does mean that neither the rapid
lion miles. All three scenarios, however,       return to previous levels of driving as-
represent a break from the trend in driving     sumed by the Back to the Future scenario
during the Driving Boom era. Had those          nor the deeper trend away from driving
trends continued without change, Ameri-         described by the Ongoing Decline scenario
cans could have been expected to drive          appear to have yet begun.
more than 4.5 trillion miles by 2040.              While the three scenarios differ greatly
   The "starting point" for each of the         with one another, all three scenarios would
three scenarios is 2009--the last year for      represent a departure from recent govern-
which data on vehicle travel by age are         ment forecasts of future driving. Figure 10
available from the National Household           above compares the range of VMT from
Travel Survey.90 Actual aggregate VMT           the three scenarios above with three recent
data from 2010, 2011 and 2012 have so far       government documents that forecast future
tracked nearly exactly with the Enduring        VMT growth rates:
Shift scenario. This does not necessarily




                                                                     Americans Will Drive Less than Was Predicted 31
                     · Paying Our Way, the 2009 report of          here. (Although previous EIA forecasts
                       the National Surface Transportation         have failed to foresee the recent decline in
                       Infrastructure Financing Commission         driving, see page 41.) Indeed, actual levels
                       (STIFC), a blue-ribbon panel created        of vehicle travel have already diverged from
                       by Congress to evaluate the nation's        the government forecasts made a few years
                       transportation funding needs.91             ago, which were issued after the start of the
                                                                   recession and after several years of declin-
                     · The U.S. Department of Transporta-          ing per-capita travel.
                       tion's (U.S. DOT) 2010 Status of the            While we cannot be certain about the
                       Nation's Highways, Bridges, and Transit:    magnitude of future changes in driving
                       Conditions & Performance ("Conditions       trends, it is increasingly clear that Ameri-
                       and Performance") report, the lat-          cans will drive significantly fewer miles
                       est in a series of biennial reports to      in the future than was forecast even a few
                       Congress on the status of the nation's      years ago. And if Millennials and others
                       transportation system.92                    continue to reduce their driving relative
                                                                   to previous generations of Americans, it is
                     · The U.S. Energy Information Admin-          possible that future driving behaviors will
                       istration's (U.S. EIA), Annual Energy       diverge from those predictions even more
                       Outlook 2013: Early Release, the latest     dramatically.
                       in a series of annual forecasts of en-          Changing driving trends have many
                       ergy use in the United States.93            important implications for transportation
                                                                   policy and various aspects of American
                        Only the most recent of these projec-      life. The following section explores these
                     tions--published by the EIA--is near the      implications in detail.
                     boundaries of the three scenarios evaluated




32 A New Direction
                                  The Implications of
                           Changing Driving Trends:
                        Opportunities and Challenges



C
      hanging trends in driving both cre-       road congestion, Americans now spend less
      ate great opportunities and pose          total time stuck in traffic than they did in
      significant challenges to the United      2004, according to the TTI analysis--de-
States. Flagging demand for driving curbs       spite an 8.5 percent increase in urban popu-
the threat of traffic congestion, reduces oil   lation over that span of time.95 Congestion
consumption and its resulting pollution,        continued to fall in 2012, according to the
curtails the potential need for expensive       travel monitoring company, INRIX, which
new investments in highway expansion, and       estimated that congestion fell by a whop-
reduces the wear and tear on our roadways.      ping 22 percent in 2012 before ticking up
However, reduction in the rate of growth        again in the opening months of 2013.96
in driving also threatens the stability of         Congestion levels do not necessarily
the nation's transportation funding sys-        track with total VMT. If vehicle travel is
tem, which is already failing to meet its       rising in urban areas and declining in rural
obligations.                                    areas, or if individuals are shifting travel
                                                to more-congested highways or times of
                                                day in which congestion is more likely, it
                                                is quite possible for congestion to increase
                                                even amid stagnating VMT. It is likely,
                                                however, that a rapid rise in VMT such as
Less Congestion                                 that posited in the Back to the Future scenar-
As driving has fallen in recent years, so has   io would cause a rise in congestion, while
traffic congestion. According to data from      the Enduring Shift scenario would result in
the Texas Transportation Institute's (TTI)      congestion remaining at roughly today's
Urban Mobility Report, Americans spent          levels for at least another decade, and
421 million fewer hours stuck in traffic in     the Ongoing Decline scenario resulting in
2011 than they did in the peak congestion       further reductions in congestion. None of
year of 2005.94 After decades of increasing     these scenarios would result in congestion




                                                                        The Implications of Changing Driving Trends 33
                     Figure 11. Hours Lost to Traffic Delay Annually, 1990-201197




                     levels that would be predicted by models      cities, and it leaves Americans' pocketbooks
                     that assumed the steady increases in VMT      vulnerable to volatile swings in world oil
                     common during the Driving Boom.               prices.
                        Thus, transportation investment can           The recent reduction in driving in the
                     safely focus less on preventing massive       United States has helped reduce our depen-
                     increases in traffic congestion and more      dence on oil. In 2011, U.S. gasoline con-
                     on other priorities.                          sumption for transportation hit a 10-year
                                                                   low, due in part to both stagnant driving
                                                                   and improved vehicle fuel economy.99 The
                                                                   decline in transportation oil consumption
                                                                   was one of several factors contributing to
                                                                   a reduction in petroleum imports to their
                     Reduced Fossil Fuel                           lowest level since 1995.100 Emissions of
                                                                   carbon dioxide, the leading global warm-
                     Consumption and                               ing pollutant, from transportation were the
                     Air Pollution                                 lowest since 1999.101
                     Gasoline consumption for transportation--        Consumption of energy for light-duty
                     which accounts for 45 percent of America's    vehicles is expected to decline in the next
                     consumption of oil--contributes to a litany   several decades as a result of improved
                     of problems.98 It leaves America dependent    fuel economy. However, fuel consumption
                     on foreign regimes for oil (contributing to   would decline even more under scenarios
                     national security challenges and the trade    with greater reductions in vehicle travel.
                     deficit), it contributes to global warming    By 2040, for example, the Enduring Shift
                     and to dangerous air pollution in our         scenario would result in the United States




34 A New Direction
using the equivalent of 16 billion fewer        and another that reflected a more mod-
gallons of gasoline per year for our cars       est 1.23 percent per year increase. At the
and light-duty trucks than in the Back to       higher VMT projection, the department
the Future scenario--the rough equivalent       estimated that there was more than $105
of all the gasoline currently consumed          billion in "cost-beneficial" spending that
each year in California. The Ongoing            could occur each year, as opposed to $80
Decline scenario, meanwhile, would result       billion in the lower VMT scenario.102
in the nation using roughly half as much           Similarly, the American Association of
gasoline or alternative fuels in our cars       State Highway and Transportation Offi-
and light trucks by 2040 as we use today.       cials' (AASHTO) 2009 Bottom Line report
Proportional reductions in health-threat-       mapped out alternative transportation
ening air pollution and pollution that          investment scenarios assuming 1.4 percent
contributes to global warming could also        and 1.0 percent annual VMT growth going
be expected.                                    forward, with the 1.0 percent scenario cost-
   In sum, a future in which vehicle travel     ing 20 percent less than the one reflecting
resembles the Enduring Shift or Ongoing         steeper growth.103
Decline scenarios represents a great op-           Maintenance needs are affected not just
portunity to reduce the nation's persistent     by the amount of traffic, but also by the
problems with oil dependence, as well           types of vehicles traveling on roads and
as the environmental and public health          bridges. Heavy-duty trucks impose far
costs associated with our reliance on fossil    greater damage on roads than light-duty
fuels.                                          vehicles.104 As a result, a future in which
                                                there are fewer miles driven overall, but
                                                more of them in heavy trucks, could re-
                                                sult in similar or greater wear and tear on
                                                highways. However, the number of miles
                                                driven in the heaviest trucks has actually
Reduced Expenditures for                        declined faster than overall vehicle travel in
Highway Expansion and                           recent years, falling by 11 percent between
                                                2007 and 2011.105 There is little evidence
Maintenance                                     thus far for the proposition that reductions
Reduced VMT growth can have a major             in household driving must coincide with an
impact on assumptions of future transpor-       increase in heavy-duty truck traffic.
tation investment needs. Reduced vehicle           The Back to the Future, Enduring Shift
travel reduces congestion--undermining          and Ongoing Decline scenarios, therefore,
the cost-benefit rationale for many highway     can be expected to have dramatically differ-
expansion projects--and reduces wear and        ent implications for future highway main-
tear, reducing the need for maintenance         tenance and construction needs, with the
expenditures in the long run.                   investments required under the Back to the
   Two recent estimates of highway invest-      Future scenario resembling those described
ment needs illustrate the dramatic savings      by recent evaluations of transportation
that are possible by reducing vehicle travel.   investment needs by AASHTO, the U.S.
The U.S. Department of Transportation's         DOT and others. The Enduring Shift and
2010 Conditions and Performance report          Ongoing Decline scenarios, however, hold
evaluated two scenarios for highway in-         out the possibility that those needs might
vestment needs: one that reflected states'      not be quite so great.
projections that VMT would increase by             These scenarios speak to future main-
an annual rate of 1.85 percent per year,        tenance needs, not the pressing need to




                                                                        The Implications of Changing Driving Trends 35
                     address the significant and mounting             There remains a common misconcep-
                     backlog of infrastructure repair projects    tion that "roads pay for themselves"--that
                     in the United States at present. Shifting    is, that revenues from the gasoline tax are
                     funds from highway expansion projects        sufficient to cover the costs of highways and
                     that may not be necessary in the future to   driving.106 By 2010, revenue brought in from
                     repair and maintenance projects would be     gas taxes and other user fees (not all of which
                     a reasonable response to any of the three    is dedicated to highways107) equaled only 62
                     scenarios.                                   percent of highway spending by all levels
                                                                  of government.108 In other words, for every
                                                                  two dollars of highway improvements paid
                                                                  for by drivers, general taxpayers chipped in
                                                                  a third dollar--a subsidy of $73 billion in
                     Reduced Revenue from                         2010 alone. While projects paid for by the
                                                                  American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
                     the Gasoline Tax                             helped fuel the continued increase in road
                     While reduced driving lessens the need       spending in 2009 and 2010--widening the
                     for new highways and repairs of old ones,    gap between revenues and expenditures--
                     it also diminishes the amount of money       the long-term trajectory has been toward
                     available to fund transportation improve-    increased dependence on general taxpayers
                     mements by eroding the chief source of       for transportation funding, both at the
                     transportation revenue: the gas tax.         federal level and in many states.109


                     Figure 12. Highway User Revenues versus Expenditures for Highways110




36 A New Direction
   In 2009, the National Surface Trans-       presented in this report111 by the current
portation Infrastructure Financing Com-       federal gasoline tax rate of 18.4 cents per
mission (STIFC) concluded that the nation     gallon and divided that figure by the fleet
faced a "crisis" in transportation finance.   average real-world vehicle fuel economy (in
The commission concluded that making up       miles per gallon) projected by the EIA in
the gap between anticipated revenues and      its 2013 Annual Energy Outlook.112
the cost of investments needed to maintain        All three scenarios would result in sig-
the system would require an increase in       nificantly lower real revenues in future
state and federal gasoline taxes of 53 to     years due to the effects of inflation and
58 cents per gallon, or a per-mile fee on     improvements in vehicle fuel economy, but
driving (VMT fee) of 3.2 to 3.5 cents per     the size of the reduction depends greatly
mile.138                                      on trends in vehicle travel. Under the Back
   The recent trend toward reduced driv-      to the Future scenario, gasoline tax revenue
ing--coupled with continued moves to          would decline by 60 percent by 2040 when
improve vehicle fuel economy--makes the       corrected for inflation, relative to 2011
commission's bleak revenue projections        levels. Under the Enduring Shift scenario,
look positively rosy.                         the decline is a more significant 67 percent,
   To estimate the impact of the various      while under the Ongoing Decline scenario it
scenarios on federal gasoline tax revenue,    is 74 percent.
we multiplied the light-duty portion of           Since most states also fail to index their
VMT under each of the three scenarios         gasoline taxes to inflation, the decline in


Figure 13. Inflation-Adjusted Federal Gasoline Tax Revenue under the Three Scenarios
(2010$)




                                                                      The Implications of Changing Driving Trends 37
                     the real value of the gasoline tax will be       number of paying customers is not likely
                     magnified.113 The 36 states with flat rate       to rise over time. In 2005 and 2006,
                     (i.e., non-indexed) gasoline and diesel taxes    foreign toll road operators financed by
                     have already seen a 29 percent erosion in        large financial companies made large bets
                     the value of their fuel taxes since the last     on future traffic volume by purchasing a
                     time those taxes were raised, contributing       99-year lease in Chicago and a 75-year
                     to a $10 billion decline in real state gas tax   lease in Indiana for major toll roads. In
                     revenue.114 Stagnation in driving, coupled       each of these deals and many smaller
                     with improving fuel economy and the              ones, t he private investors acted as
                     effects of inflation, would compound the         concessionaires, collecting tolls for their
                     erosion of transportation funding at the         own bottom line. Many people thought
                     state level as well.                             these toll concessions were the wave of
                         Changes in VMT trends would also             the future.
                     affect the sustainability of funding from           Several toll concessions have produced
                     VMT-based fees, a commonly proposed              less revenue than expected. Some have
                     alternative to the gasoline tax. VMT fees        needed to be bailed out by the government.
                     would need to become significantly higher        Others--such as a brand-new billion-dol-
                     over time in order to generate the same          lar toll road in Texas that sought to attract
                     amount of revenue.                               traffic by posting the nation's fastest speed
                                                                      limit, 85 miles per hour--have faced the
                                                                      threat of a credit downgrade as a result
                                                                      of flagging traffic.115 These shortfalls in
                                                                      privately collected tolls do not necessarily
                     Increased Risk for                               mean that the government received a "good
                                                                      deal," since more expensive private capital
                     Public-Private Partnerships                      costs and other potential compensation
                     As gasoline tax revenues have dried up,          must also be covered.116
                     federal and state transportation officials          More recently, the trend toward toll
                     have sometimes looked toward public-             concessions has been replaced with an
                     private partnerships (PPPs) as a potential       alternative form of long-term PPP arrange-
                     alternative. There are many possible ways        ment in which private investors are paid a
                     for government to partner with the private       pre-established rate by the government for
                     sector, including traditional forms of fi-       making toll lanes available.117 A downside
                     nancing and procurement that raise private       of using these so-called "availability pay-
                     money through the municipal bond market          ment" arrangements is that they merely
                     and hire private contractors to provide          shift the risk of lower-than-expected toll
                     materials and labor. But most of the atten-      revenue from reduced travel from private
                     tion given to PPPs involves the potential        enterprise to taxpayers, eliminating one of
                     for a private entity to agree to build and/or    the important potential benefits claimed
                     maintain a highway for a given period of         for PPPs.
                     time in exchange for revenue--in many               The trend away from toll concessions
                     cases, from vehicle tolls.                       and toward availability payments can be
                        Uncertainty regarding VMT trends              seen as an implicit bet by Wall Street
                     reduces the attractiveness of toll revenue       and other investors against the idea that
                     as a payout to private investors. Fewer          vehicle travel will return to the sustained
                     investors will be willing to invest the          growth of the Driving Boom years, and
                     massive amounts of capital required              an indication that investors are seeking a
                     to build and maintain a toll road if the         hedge against VMT trends similar to those




38 A New Direction
in the Enduring Shift and Ongoing Decline
scenarios.
                                                 Summary
                                                 Changing trends in driving bring with
    Emergence of trends similar to those
                                                 them tremendous opportunities, as well as
of the Back to the Future scenario would
                                                 significant challenges. Stagnant or declin-
likely set off a resurgence of investor inter-
                                                 ing VMT would significantly reduce many
est in toll road concessions, whereas the
                                                 of the environmental and public health
other scenarios would likely solidify the
                                                 problems caused by driving, while reducing
trend away from toll concessions. Another
                                                 growth in congestion and alleviating the
implication is that governments could
                                                 need for costly expenditures to maintain
doubly lose out if they invest in building
                                                 and rebuild highways. However, reduced
and maintaining new toll lanes based on
                                                 driving has already contributed to the
financing projections that assume the Back
                                                 nation's transportation funding woes by
to the Future scenario. If the Enduring Shift
                                                 eroding gasoline tax revenue, and it also
or Ongoing Decline scenarios instead come
                                                 poses major obstacles to potential fund-
about, then governments could find they
                                                 ing sources that have been suggested as
have paid for new lanes that are both un-
                                                 alternatives to the gas tax, including VMT
needed and fall far short of covering their
                                                 charges and public-private partnerships.
expected costs.
                                                    Transportation policy in the United
    Changing vehicle travel trends pose
                                                 States should work to maximize the ben-
risks not just for private investors but for
                                                 efits of changing driving trends by support-
taxpayers as well--regardless of how the
                                                 ing the desires of Millennials and others to
risks are distributed at the outset of a PPP
                                                 reduce their driving, while also addressing
arrangement.
                                                 the funding challenges posed by reductions
                                                 in vehicle travel. The following section
                                                 lays out a blueprint for how transportation
                                                 policy could be revised to meet the needs
                                                 of the 21st century.




                                                                        The Implications of Changing Driving Trends 39
                     A New Vision for Transportation Policy




                     T
                          he nation's current transportation        create a transportation system that meets
                          policies were borne out of the needs      the needs of the 21st century.
                          of early to mid-20th century America.        A new vision for transportation policy in
                     Those policies did an excellent job of rais-   the United States begins with a few com-
                     ing money for and building new highway         mon-sense principles.
                     capacity. By the end of the 20th century,
                     these policies had succeeded in completing
                     the Interstate Highway System and largely
                     financed the creation of a road network
                     designed to encourage and accommodate
                     the postwar Driving Boom.
                                                                    1. Plan (and invest) for
                        The needs of 21st century America are       uncertainty.
                     different, but our transportation policies     The evidence is clear that the Driving
                     remain stuck in the past. We continue to       Boom--the 60-year period of regular,
                     spend vast sums on highway construction        steady increases in per-capita driving--is
                     projects of dubious value, even as the high-   now over. We don't yet know, however,
                     way infrastructure America built in the 20th   what will replace it.
                     century ages and deteriorates. Meanwhile,         Are the changes that have occurred in
                     there is little recognition among policy-      driving behaviors--particularly among
                     makers that transportation trends have         young A mericans--temporar y shifts
                     changed, or that the needs and desires of      that will be erased by renewed economic
                     rising generations such as the Millennials     growth? Are they just the beginning of
                     may be different from those of previous        a more sustained shift away from auto-
                     generations of Americans.                      oriented lifestyles? Or is the reality some-
                        America's current transportation policy     where in between?
                     framework is unproductive and unsustain-          The scenar ios of f ut u re dema nd
                     able. The nation needs to hit the "reset"      for driving presented in this report
                     button on transportation policy to account     are all a sea change from the defining
                     for recent changes in driving habits and to    assumptions of the Driving Boom era, and



40 A New Direction
the investments suggested by any of these        U.S. Energy Information Administration
scenarios differ from those suggested            (EIA)--which produces the official U.S.
by recent government forecasts that              government forecasts of energy use--fore-
anticipated a return to rapid and sustained      cast in 2006 that Americans would be driv-
growth in vehicle travel. But differences        ing more than 3.3 trillion miles per year by
in the three scenarios in this report            2012. Instead, Americans drove less than
illustrate a significant gulf between future     3 trillion miles--10 percent fewer than
possibilities. The investment decisions          had been predicted just six years earlier.
that would be required to accommodate            Figure 14 shows how official forecasts have
the increase in driving in the Back to the       predicted a resumption of vehicle travel
Future scenario are vastly different than        growth year after year, even as that growth
those that would be needed if the recent         has failed to materialize.
drop in driving is the beginning of a deeper        To the extent that these forecasts have
decline. How can policymakers possibly           influenced public policy, America likely
make wise long-term investments in such          finds itself today over-investing in highway
an atmosphere of uncertainty?                    capacity at the expense of other transporta-
    The first step is for policymakers to stop   tion and societal priorities.
pretending that future increases in driving         Transportation planners and public
are foreordained. Over the past decade,          officials must understand that there are
official forecasts have continued to predict     important uncertainties in future demand
steady, rapid increases in vehicle travel that   for driving and that these uncertainties
have failed to materialize. For example, the     are unlikely to be properly accounted for


Figure 14. Recent Energy Information Administration Forecasts of Vehicle-Miles
Traveled by Date of Forecast118




                                                                             A New Vision for Transportation Policy 41
                     using assumptions developed during the          the recipients of the competitive
                     Driving Boom.                                   federal "innovative financing"
                        The second step is for policymakers to       loans (under the Transportation
                     incorporate uncertainty into transporta-        Infrastructure Finance and Innovation
                     tion decision-making. Specifically, plan-       Act, TIFIA), so as to avoid overstating
                     ners and policymakers should:                   the congestion-reducing merits and
                                                                     creditworthiness of highway PPPs.
                     · Evaluate transportation proposals
                       under a variety of scenarios of future
                       driving. Regional transportation
                       plans and individual project propos-
                       als should be tested against different
                       scenarios for economic growth and          2. Support the desire of
                       gasoline prices, as well as changes in
                       population, demographics and con-
                                                                  Millennials and other
                       sumer preferences.                         Americans to drive less.
                     · Prioritize projects that are the most      The Millennial generation is saying loud
                       likely to deliver benefits under any       and clear that it is looking for alternatives
                       scenario. Investments in transporta-       to auto-oriented lifestyles. Reducing the
                       tion demand management, for exam-          growth in driving on American roads can
                       ple, may compare favorably with large      bring great benefits to society--curbing
                       highway expansion projects given that      the nation's dependence on oil, reducing
                       they deliver benefits under a variety of   congestion without the massive expense
                       possible future conditions and may be      and disruption of expanding highways,
                       lower in cost and risk.                    and reducing emissions of air pollutants
                                                                  that threaten the environment and public
                     · Incorporate uncertainty into cost-         health.
                        benefit equations and risk calculations      Considering that Millennials and sub-
                        for PPPs. Effective management            sequent generations will be the primary
                        of PPPs requires a sophisticated          beneficiaries of the transportation infra-
                        understanding of risk. To the degree      structure we build today (and the ones who
                        that private sector entities involved     will ultimately pay for it) why shouldn't the
                        in PPPs take on traffic-related risks     investments we make today reflect their
                        in the construction of private toll       needs, particularly if doing so would also
                        roads or other infrastructure, the        deliver broad benefits to society?
                        public must be able to understand            At the local level, many city govern-
                        the potential for and implications of     ments are beginning to respond to these
                        possible default or bailouts. To the      new demands, with cities increasingly
                        extent that the public takes on those     racing to add bike lanes, streetcars and
                        risks by agreeing to make future          other infrastructure that enables new
                        "availability payments," decision-        transportation options. Development is
                        makers must clearly assess whether the    also now booming in many urban centers.
                        benefits of the project are worth the     An EPA analysis found that "infill" de-
                        costs under a variety of scenarios of     velopment in already built-out portions
                        possible future driving. Consideration    of metropolitan areas attracted a greater
                        of lower-VMT scenarios may be             share of new residential construction in
                        particularly important for selecting      the late 2000s than earlier in the decade




42 A New Direction
in nearly three-quarters of the metropoli-        passenger rail network and in urban
tan areas studied.119 In 2011, the popula-        transit systems.
tion of large cities grew faster than that
of suburban areas for the first time in at        W hile the Millennials will play a
least nine decades.120 Some state govern-      critical role in determining future driv-
ments are beginning to respond to these        ing trends, transportation policymakers
new demands as well.121 But the bulk of        must obviously keep in mind the needs
America's transportation policy frame-         of all Americans. The aging members of
work is still designed to make building        the Baby Boom generation--largely con-
highways easy and investing in other           centrated in the suburbs--will soon find
solutions difficult.                           themselves with new transportation needs.
   In the postwar years, when Americans        Federal, state and local governments must
expressed their desire for suburban hous-      also consider how the changing mobility
ing and greater mobility, the full weight of   needs of the Baby Boom generation will af-
federal and state governments swung into       fect demand for public transportation and
action, building the Interstate Highway        paratransit services in areas that are often
System, enacting automobile-focused plan-      poorly served by current transit systems
ning and zoning codes, and subsidizing         and must devote resources toward serving
new housing in the suburbs.                    those needs.
   What might a transportation policy look
like that did the same for the Millennials?
At minimum, it would:

· Make the expansion of transportation
  choices to a broader range of Ameri-
                                               3. Revisit plans for new or
  cans a national priority in the 21st         expanded highways.
  century--much as the development             Short-term and long-term transportation
  of the Interstate Highway System was         plans are filled with highway projects that
  seen as a national priority in the 20th      were planned under very different expec-
  century.                                     tations of future travel growth. Many of
                                               these "legacy projects" were originally
· Encourage state and local governments        proposed decades ago, and approved based
  to reassess automobile-oriented plan-        on assessments of future travel made a de-
  ning and zoning rules--prioritizing          cade ago or more.122 Meanwhile, state and
  the development of streets and roads         federal governments continue to invest vast
  suitable for driving, bicycling and          resources in further expansions of highway
  walking; revising zoning rules that          capacity, despite nearly a decade of zero
  stand in the way of compact, mixed-          growth in vehicle travel. Between 2004
  use development; and ensuring that           and 2008, states continued to devote 57
  transportation infrastructure invest-        percent of highway funding to expansion
  ments are consistent with land-use           projects, versus only 43 percent to system
  plans.                                       preservation.123
                                                  The assumptions of future growth in
· Refocus federal investment on trans-         vehicle travel that undergird Long-Range
  portation infrastructure projects that       Transportation Plans and short-term
  received less investment and attention       Transportation Improvement Programs
  during the Driving Boom, including           appear to have not yet been reviewed in any
  investments in the nation's                  systematic way since the close of the Driving




                                                                            A New Vision for Transportation Policy 43
                     Boom. For example, the 2010 version of             · Refuse to devote additional resources
                     U.S. Department of Transportation's (U.S.            to new highway expansion projects
                     DOT) biannual Conditions and Performance             unless the projects have been demon-
                     report--which provides a comprehensive               strated to deliver significantly greater
                     view of the investment needs of the nation's         societal benefits compared with other
                     highway and transit systems--was pub-                transportation alternatives under a
                     lished in March 2012, well after the trend           range of possible scenarios of future
                     toward stagnant vehicle travel had become            vehicle travel growth.
                     apparent. However, the U.S. DOT's study
                     was based on state-supplied VMT growth
                     forecasts that amounted to a 1.8 percent
                     average annual growth rate in VMT--a
                     rate of year-over-year growth that has not
                     been achieved in any single year since 2004,
                                                                        4. Refocus the federal role.
                                                                        The recent sharp decline in federal fuel tax
                     and is more than double the average rate of
                                                                        revenues--which has forced the infusion of
                     growth between 2000 and 2010.124
                                                                        ever-larger amounts of cash from the gen-
                        The period of no growth or slow growth
                                                                        eral fund to keep the Highway Trust Fund
                     in vehicle travel is likely to continue for at
                                                                        afloat--has led to a new set of conversations
                     least the next several years, if not longer.
                                                                        about the proper role of the federal govern-
                     Even the Energy Information Adminis-
                                                                        ment in transportation policy.
                     tration's 2013 forecast, which anticipates
                                                                           The federal government clearly has a
                     an eventual return to sustained growth in
                                                                        role to play in making investments that ad-
                     driving, does not anticipate total VMT re-
                                                                        dress strategic national priorities. The cur-
                     turning to its peak 2007 level until 2016.125 If
                                                                        rent system, however, distributes highway
                     future driving trends more closely resemble
                                                                        funds to states with little accountability for
                     those of the Enduring Shift scenario, it will
                                                                        results and no clear connection to broader
                     be more than another decade before total
                                                                        strategic objectives.
                     VMT returns to its 2007 level; if trends re-
                                                                           The United States should establish clear,
                     semble those in the Ongoing Decline scenario,
                                                                        relevant national priorities for transporta-
                     they may not return to that level until after
                                                                        tion investment. We propose the following
                     2040, if ever.
                                                                        priorities:
                        This interregnum in vehicle travel
                     growth provides an excellent opportunity
                                                                        · The nation should set a goal of bring-
                     to rethink previous transportation invest-
                                                                          ing the highway and transit systems
                     ments and reconfigure our priorities.
                                                                          to a state of good repair as soon as is
                     Specifically, federal, state and local govern-
                                                                          practical.
                     ments should:
                                                                        · The federal government should serve
                     · Begin an immediate review of projects
                                                                          the changing transportation needs of
                       on state and regional Transportation
                                                                          Americans by supporting the develop-
                       Improvement Programs and Long-
                                                                          ment of communities with multiple
                       Range Transportation Plans in light
                                                                          transportation options.
                       of new understandings about trends
                       in vehicle travel. Projects that can-
                                                                        · The federal government should expand
                       not be justified based on lower levels
                                                                          efforts to promote innovation in the
                       of expected traffic volume should be
                                                                          application of technology and small-
                       delayed or scrapped.
                                                                          scale solutions to transportation chal-




44 A New Direction
   lenges. A collection of inexpensive,           for the buck," much more must be done to
   small-scale fixes can sometimes be just        ensure the effectiveness and accountability
   as effective as a major infrastructure         of federal transportation spending.
   expansion in reducing congestion.126
   The advent of mobile Internet-con-
   nected technology provides more
   opportunities for such small-scale
   innovations. The federal government
   can help states to gain access to new
                                                  5. Use transportation
   solutions and to share their expertise         revenue where it is most
   and experiences with those solutions           needed.
   with one another.                              America's transportation investments
                                                  continue to be shaped by policies adopted
   Absent from this list of national priori-      nearly a century ago when paved roads
ties is expansion of the existing highway         were uncommon and the automobile was a
system. State and regional governments            novelty. In those years, state governments
would be free, under this new vision of           began to adopt statutory or constitutional
federal priorities, to propose highway proj-      provisions dedicating revenue from the
ects as solutions to transportation needs,        gasoline tax to roads and bridges.128 Many
but no longer would those investments be          of these provisions remain in effect today,
first in line for federal taxpayer resources or   while the assumption that all revenues
receive a favorable federal match compared        obtained from drivers should be spent for
with transit projects or other transporta-        their exclusive benefit continues to shape
tion alternatives.                                the transportation debate.
   Once the nation sets clear priorities,            The needs of 21st century America de-
all significant transportation investments        mand that we spend transportation revenue
should be evaluated based on the degree to        in ways that maximize the benefits for
which projects meet those objectives. The         future Americans. Local, state and federal
two-year federal transportation law passed        governments should be free to invest in
in July 2012 (Moving Ahead for Progress in        transportation projects that deliver the
the 21st Century, or MAP-21) mandates the         greatest benefits to society. Outmoded
creation of performance metrics for states        constitutional provisions that bar the use
and the federal government, but those state       of gasoline tax revenue for public transpor-
metrics need not be established until years       tation or other transportation alternatives
after the law has expired and will yield          should be discarded, while current federal
little benefit if they are not attached to        policies that require transit projects to un-
clear triggers that reallocate transportation     dergo a more difficult review process than
resources to better meet those goals and          highways or receive a less generous federal
reward success.127 The current law places         match should be eliminated.
light penalties on states that do not develop
risk-based asset management plans after
2014 and can impose some light penalties
for neglect of federally financed assets after
2018. While these provisions are a first step
toward ensuring that transportation spend-        6. Do our homework.
ing is aligned with true priorities and that      The recent decline in driving has exposed
the projects that receive federal funds are       the inadequacy and inaccuracy of the
those that can deliver the greatest "bang         current models and planning tools used




                                                                               A New Vision for Transportation Policy 45
                     to guide infrastructure investments in          tigate changing transportation trends and
                     the United States. At both the national         to evaluate the impact of new technolo-
                     and local levels, transportation planners       gies and new patterns of development on
                     have continually overestimated traffic          accessibility and mobility. Key travel sur-
                     demand.                                         veys--especially the National Household
                        After roughly eight years of stagnation in   Travel Survey--should be conducted more
                     vehicle travel, the time has come to revisit    frequently (ideally annually129) to provide
                     whether we know everything we need to           better, more up-to-date information on
                     know about Americans' travel preferences        transportation behaviors. State and local
                     and choices as we plan for the future.          governments should also take steps to con-
                        Federal, state and local officials should    sider the implications of changing travel
                     launch renewed research efforts to inves-       trends in their own planning processes.




46 A New Direction
                                                                   Conclusion




T
      he end of the Driving Boom has            must integrate our growing understand-
      brought uncertainty to U.S. transpor-     ing of recent changes in transportation
      tation policy. But it has also brought    trends into every aspect of transportation
opportunity. A future of stabilized demand      decision-making, from the ways in which
for driving is one in which roads last longer   we estimate future transportation funding
and are cheaper to maintain, traffic conges-    needs to the ways in which we choose our
tion remains stable or declines, America is     investment priorities.
less dependent on oil, and our cars produce        We may not know the exact shape of
less pollution.                                 the future, but it is increasingly likely that
   The changing transportation priorities       it will look very different from the past.
of the Millennial generation, the advance       By retiring Driving Boom-era assump-
of new technology, and other changes            tions and policies that no longer serve the
provide an opportunity for the United           nation's needs, we can build a transporta-
States to create a new transportation policy    tion system that is more affordable, more
that meets the needs of the 21st century.       efficient and more sustainable for the long
To achieve that goal, however, the nation       haul.




                                                                                                 Conclusion 47
                     Methodology




                     T
                          he scenarios presented in this report       Constructing a Profile of
                          are intended to illustrate various
                          visions for how aggregate vehicle-
                                                                      Per-Capita VMT by Age
                     miles traveled (VMT) could change in             and Sex
                     the future, so as to better understand the       The scenario analysis required creation
                     implications of those changes on transpor-       of a year-by-year estimate of per-capita
                     tation policy. These scenarios are based on      VMT by age and sex. The NHTS includes
                     historic trends in per-capita VMT by age         estimates of vehicle-miles traveled by age
                     and gender from the National Household           category and sex for years in which the sur-
                     Travel Survey (NHTS), and projections            vey took place (2001, 2009). Data on annual
                     of future population from the U.S. Census        vehicle-miles traveled by age group and sex
                     Bureau.                                          were downloaded using the NHTS data
                        The three scenarios evaluated in this re-     extraction tool (nhts.ornl.gov/det/Extrac-
                     port--the Back to the Future, Enduring Shift     tion2.aspx) for the 2001 and 2009 surveys,
                     and Ongoing Decline scenarios--align con-        and were divided by the number of licensed
                     ceptually with the alternative hypotheses        drivers of each sex in each age category
                     of future trends in driving ("interrupted        (obtained from the FHWA's Highway Sta-
                     growth," "saturation" and "peak car")            tistics series of reports) to arrive at a figure
                     suggested by Phil Goodwin in Peak Travel,        for VMT per licensed driver for members
                     Peak Car and the Future of Mobility: Evidence,   of each age group and sex.
                     Unresolved Issues, Policy Implications and a         To arrive at an estimate of average
                     Research Agenda, International Transport         per-capita VMT for each age and gender,
                     Forum, discussion paper prepared for the         VMT-per-licensed-driver was multiplied by
                     roundtable on long-run trends in travel          the number of licensed drivers of that sex
                     demand, 29-30 November 2012.                     and age group130 from U.S. Department of
                                                                      Transportation, Federal Highway Admin-
                                                                      istration, Highway Statistics series of reports,
                                                                      and divided by population for that age and
                                                                      sex from the U.S. Census Bureau.131



48 A New Direction
Population Estimates and                    Constructing the Scenarios
Projections                                 This report uses three scenarios-- Back
Population estimates for the 2001 through   to the Future, Enduring Shift, and Ongo-
2010 period, broken down by age and sex,    ing Decline--to illustrate the implications
were obtained from the U.S. Census Bu-      of various potential trends in per-capita
reau (www.census.gov/popest/data/inter-     household vehicle travel on transportation
censal/index.html). Population estimates    policy.
for 2010 and 2011 were also obtained from      All three scenarios are built on estimates
the Census Bureau. Updated population       of household VMT, from which estimates
projections for 2012 through 2040 were      of total VMT are calculated as described in
obtained from the U.S. Census Bureau in     the "Factoring in Non-Household VMT"
December 2012 (www.census.gov/popu-         section below. All three scenarios share a
lation/projections/data/national/2012.      base year of 2009, the last year for which
html).                                      age and gender-specific VMT data are
                                            available. Household vehicle-miles traveled
                                            for 2009 were calculated by multiplying
                                            age- and gender-specific estimates of per-
                                            capita VMT in 2009 (calculated based on
                                            the NHTS and FHWA sources described
                                            above) by age- and sex-specific population
                                            estimates from the Census Bureau.




                                                                                            Methodology 49
     Back to the Future
     The Back to the Future scenario assumes that average per-capita VMT by age and sex will
     return to its 2004 level by 2020 and continue at those levels thereafter.
        For those of driving age (16 and older) at the time of completion of the 2009 NHTS,
     the following formula was used to estimate per-capita VMT for each sex and year of age,
     using linear interpolation between 2001 and 2009 values for per-capita VMT by age and
     sex to estimate values in the peak per-capita driving year of 2004:




        Where:




        For those not of driving age in 2009, the formula is as follows:




        VMT per capita by age and sex were multiplied by projected population by age and sex
     from the Census Bureau, and then aggregated across all age and sex categories for 2020
     and subsequent years. Aggregate VMT for years between 2009 and 2020 were estimated
     based on a linear interpolation of 2009 and 2020 values.




50 A New Direction
Enduring Shift
The Enduring Shift scenario assumes that drivers in each age cohort reduce (or increase)
their driving as they age by the same percentage by which they changed their driving
compared with an older cohort in 2009. For example, if 20-year-old males in 2009 drove
20 percent less than 20-year-old males did in 2001, it is assumed that eleven years later in
2020 they will similarly drive 20 percent less than did 31-year-old males did in 2001. In
2030, this same age cohort will drive 20 percent less than 41-year old males did in 2001.
New drivers are assumed to reduce their driving (relative to 2001 per-capita driving levels
by age) by the same percentage as 16 to 24 year-olds did between 2001 and 2009. Thus, a
20-year old male in 2020 or 2030 will drive approximately the same amount as members
of that age group did in 2009. For those of driving age at the time of the 2001 NHTS, the
formula for per-capita VMT by year of age and sex is as follows.




  Where:




  For those who were not of driving age during the 2001 NHTS, the following formula
applies:




  Where:




   VMT per capita by age and sex was multiplied by projected population by age and sex
from the Census Bureau, and then aggregated across all age and sex categories for 2020
and subsequent years. Aggregate VMT for years between 2009 and 2020 were estimated
based on a linear interpolation of 2009 and 2020 values.



                                                                                               Methodology 51
    Ongoing Decline
    The Ongoing Decline scenario assumes that the percentage change in driving behavior ex-
    perienced by each age group between 2001 and 2009 will be replicated between 2009 and
    2025, and that new drivers will drive even less than young drivers did in 2009. It assumes
    no change in driving behavior after 2025, but total and aggregate per-capita VMT still
    changes as a result of population growth and demographic shifts.
      For those who were of driving age in 2001, the formula for per-capita VMT by year of
    age and sex in 2020 and subsequent years is as follows:




       Where:




      For those not of driving age in 2001, the formula for per-capita VMT by year of age
    and sex in 2020 and subsequent years is as follows:




      Where x=2 in 2025 and subsequent years, and an amount between 1.6875 and 2 from
    2020 through 2024.133

       VMT per capita by age and sex was multiplied by projected population by age and sex
    from the Census Bureau, and then aggregated across all age and sex categories for 2020
    and subsequent years. Aggregate VMT for years between 2009 and 2020 were estimated
    based on a linear interpolation of 2009 and 2020 values.




52 A New Direction
Treatment of                                  VMT--calculated by subtracting house-
                                              hold VMT in 2009 (from NHTS data)
Non-Household VMT                             from total VMT (as reported by the
The National Household Travel Survey          Federal Highway Administration's High-
only reflects vehicle travel made in house-   way Statistics series of reports)--remains
holds, which accounts for approximately       constant through 2040. This approach
three-quarters of all vehicle travel.134      has been used by other analysts seeking to
Non-household vehicle travel includes         establish a relationship between household
travel in everything from heavy-duty          and total VMT,136 though the relationship
trucks to rental cars to delivery vehicles    between household VMT as estimated by
to pick-up trucks used for work purposes.     the NHTS and total VMT as estimated in
Not all of these types of vehicle travel      publications such as Highway Statistics has
are tracked by existing data sources.         been inconsistent over time.
Complicating matters further, even those         The relationship between household
portions of non-household VMT that            and non-household VMT is particularly
are regularly tracked--such as travel in      challenging to forecast since some changes
certain types of commercial trucks--are       that might reduce household VMT (e.g.,
represented in data sets that have experi-    increased e-commerce) could increase non-
enced significant methodological changes      household VMT (e.g., increasing miles
in recent years, making time-series com-      traveled in delivery trucks). We hope that
parisons difficult.135                        additional research and better data sets will
   In this paper, we assume that the pro-     enable a fuller exploration of future trends
portion of household to non-household         in aggregate non-household VMT.




                                                                                              Methodology 53
                     Notes



                     1 David W. Jones, Mass Motorization and       Federal Highway Administration,
                     Mass Transit: An American History and         Innovative Program Delivery: Project
                     Policy Analysis, Indiana University Press,    Profiles: South Bay Expressway, accessed at
                     2008, 129.                                    www.fhwa.dot.gov/ipd/project_profiles/
                                                                   ca_southbay.htm, 29 April 2013.
                     2 U.S. Department of Transportation,
                     Federal Highway Administration, High-         8 Irvin Dawid, "Build it and They
                     way Statistics series of reports, available   May not Come," Planetizen (blog), 13
                     at www.fhwa.dot.gov/policyinformation/        December 2012.
                     statistics.cfm.
                                                                   9 See note 4.
                     3 Transportation Corridor Agencies, The
                     Toll Roads: Background & History, accessed    10 See note 2.
                     at www.thetollroads.com/aboutus/toll-
                     roads-history.php, 29 April 2013.             11 Ibid.

                     4 Doug Irving, "State Launches Review         12 Vehicle-miles traveled: See note 2;
                     of Toll-Road Finances," Orange County         Note: for all references in this report
                     Register, 17 December 2012.                   to population (unless otherwise noted),
                                                                   the following citations are used. For
                     5 Reston Citizens Association, Wilbur         population data for 1900-1999 see U.S.
                     Smith Associates' Traffic and Revenue Fore-   Census Bureau, Historical Population
                     casts: Plenty of Room for Error, 27 January   Estimates: July 1, 1900 to July 1, 1999,
                     2012.                                         28 June 2000. For population data for
                                                                   2000-2010 see U.S. Census Bureau,
                     6 See note 4.                                 GCT-T1: Population Estimates. For
                                                                   population data for 2011 see U.S.
                     7 U.S. Department of Transportation,          Census Bureau, Monthly Population




54 A New Direction
Estimates for the United States: April 1,     Statistics series of reports (through 2011)
2010 to January 1, 2012.                      and U.S. Department of Transportation,
                                              Traffic Volume Trends: January 2013
13 See note 2. Based on straight-line         accessed at www.fhwa.dot.gov/
distance between New York and Los             policyinformation/travel_monitoring/
Angeles of 2,462 miles.                       13jantvt/fig1.cfm, 8 April 2013 (for 2012,
                                              based on 12-month trailing average for
14 See note 12.                               December 2012); population estimates
                                              from U.S. Census Bureau, Historical
                                              Population Estimates, accessed at www.
15 Frank Hobbs and Nicole Stoops, U.S.
                                              census.gov/popest/data/historical/index.
Census Bureau, Demographic Trends in the
                                              html, 5 December 2012 (1970-2012), and
20th Century: Census 2000 Special Reports,
                                              U.S. Census Bureau, Statistical Abstract of
November 2002.
                                              the United States 2003, 2004, Table HS-1
                                              (1936-1969).
16 See note 2. Converted to 2010 dollars
using the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
                                              20 Dating back to 1936, the first
CPI Inflation Calculator, accessed at
                                              year included in U.S. Department
www.bls.gov/data/inflation_calculator.
                                              of Transportation, Federal Highway
htm. Though often referred to as "user
                                              Administration, Highway Statistics
fees," gas taxes and other levies have
                                              Summary to 1995, Table VM-201.
never really functioned as true user fees.
See Tony Dutzik and Benjamin Davis,
Frontier Group, and Phineas Baxandall,        21 Based on 12-month rolling
U.S. PIRG Education Fund, Do Roads Pay        average from U.S. Department of
for Themselves? Setting the Record Straight   Transportation, Traffic Volume Trends
on Transportation Funding, January 2011.      February 2013. The previous peak in
                                              vehicle travel on a 12-month rolling
                                              average basis was in November 2007.
17 As of 2003, 22 states had
                                              At the time of publication, data were
constitutional provisions dedicating
                                              available through February 2013. Note
gasoline tax revenues exclusively to
                                              that data in the Traffic Volume Trends
highways, while another eight states had
                                              series are frequently revised.
statutory dedications. Source: Robert
Puentes and Ryan Prince, Brookings
Institution, Fueling Transportation           22 Data on licensed drivers and
Finance: A Primer on the Gas Tax, March       registered vehicles obtained from U.S.
2003.                                         Department of Transportation, Federal
                                              Highway Administration, Highway
                                              Statistics series of reports. "Driving-age
18 U.S. Department of Transportation,
                                              population" calculated as those 16 years
Federal Highway Administration, Our
                                              of age and older, using data from U.S.
Nation's Highways ­ 2000, Selected Facts
                                              Census Bureau, Historical Population
and Figures, downloaded from www.fhwa.
                                              Estimates, downloaded from www.
dot.gov/ohim/onh00/our_ntns_hwys.pdf,
                                              census.gov/popest/data/historical/
4 January 2013.
                                              index.html, 5 December 2012. Labor
                                              force participation rate obtained
19 Vehicle-miles traveled from U.S.           from U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics,
Department of Transportation, Federal         Labor Force Statistics from the Current
Highway Administration, Highway




                                                                                            Notes 55
                     Population Survey, accessed at data.bls.        Budgets," Transportation Research Part A,
                     gov/timeseries/LNS11300000, 8 April             38(9/10): 643-675, 2004. Note that the
                     2012.                                           notion of a fixed travel time budget works
                                                                     both ways ­ as travel becomes faster,
                     23 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Labor       people are able to travel greater distances
                     Force Statistics from the Current Population    within the same "budget" of time.
                     Survey, accessed at www.bls.gov/data/, 7
                     January 2013.                                   31 Patricia L. Mokhtarian and Cynthia
                                                                     Chen, "TTB or Not TTB, That Is the
                     24 Ibid.                                        Question: A Review and Analysis of the
                                                                     Empirical Literature on Travel Time
                     25 Congressional Budget Office, CBO's           (and Money) Budgets," Transportation
                     Labor Force Projections Through 2021,           Research Part A, 38(9/10): 643-675, 2004.
                     March 2011.
                                                                     32 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics,
                     26 "Registered vehicles" includes freight,      American Time Use Survey: Time Spent in
                     fleet and commercial vehicles, making the       Detailed Primary Activities, and Percent of
                     greater than 1:1 ratio of registered vehicles   the Civilian Population Engaging in Each
                     to drivers somewhat less striking than it       Detailed Activity Category, Averages per
                     might otherwise appear. Data: see note 2.       Day by Sex, downloaded from www.bls.
                                                                     gov/tus/, 7 January 2013.
                     27 Licensed drivers: see note 2; driving-
                     age population: based on population             33 U.S. Department of Transportation,
                     16 years and older from U.S. Census             Federal Highway Administration,
                     Bureau, Historical Population Estimates,        Summary of Travel Trends: 2009 National
                     downloaded from www.census.gov/                 Household Travel Survey, June 2011.
                     popest/data/historical/index.html, 5
                     December 2012.                                  34 Historical data from U.S. Census
                                                                     Bureau, Historical Population Estimates,
                     28 Todd Litman, Victoria Transport              downloaded from www.census.gov/
                     Policy Institute, The Future Isn't What         popest/data/historical/index.html, 5
                     it Used to Be: Changing Trends and their        December 2012. Projections from: U.S.
                     Implications for Transportation Planning, 27    Census Bureau, 2012 National Population
                     December 2012.                                  Projections, downloaded from www.
                                                                     census.gov/population/projections/data/
                                                                     national/2012.html, 5 December 2012.
                     29 Driverless cars are sometimes sug-
                     gested as one innovation that could speed
                     vehicle travel by improving the efficiency      35 Ibid.
                     of the highway network.
                                                                     36 U.S. Department of Energy, Energy
                     30 For an extensive discussion of the           Information Administration, Annual
                     evidence for and against the existence of       Energy Review 2011, September 2012.
                     a stable travel time budget, see Patricia
                     L. Mokhtarian and Cynthia Chen, "TTB            37 For further information and
                     or Not TTB, That Is the Question: A             discussion, see Todd Litman, Victoria
                     Review and Analysis of the Empirical            Transport Policy Institute, Understanding
                     Literature on Travel Time (and Money)           Transport Demand and Elasticities: How




56 A New Direction
Prices and Other Factors Affect Travel      Williams-Derry; Oregon Department
Behavior, 10 September 2012.                of Transportation, Fuels Tax Group,
                                            personal communication with Clark
38 Based on U.S. Department of Energy,      Williams-Derry.
Energy Information Administration,
Annual Energy Review 2011, September        44 Washington State Department of
2012 (for data through 2011) and            Transportation, 2011 Annual Traffic Report,
U.S. Department of Energy, Energy           undated, accessed at hwww.wsdot.wa.gov/
Information Administration, Short Term      mapsdata/travel/pdf/Annual_Traffic_Re-
Energy Outlook, March 2013 (for 2012        port_2011.pdf, 8 April 2013; Oregon De-
and projected 2013 and 2014 prices) with    partment of Transportation, Oregon Vehicle
figures based on the average of monthly     Miles Traveled (VMT), accessed at www.
prices for the 12 months of each year.      oregon.gov/ODOT/TD/TDATA/Pages/
                                            tsm/vmtpage.aspx, 8 April 2013.
39 U.S. Department of Transportation,
Federal Transit Administration, National    45 Washington and Oregon popula-
Transit Database: Historical Data Files,    tion from U.S. Bureau of the Cen-
Table TS2.1, downloaded from www.           sus, Washington Office of Financial
ntdprogram.gov/ntdprogram/data.htm,         Management (data accessed at www.
10 December 2012.                           ofm.wa.gov/pop/), and Portland
                                            State University Population Research
40 Through 2012: American Public            Center (data accessed at www.pdx.
Transportation Association, Public          edu/prc/population-estimates-0).
Transportation Ridership Report, Fourth
Quarter 2012, 1 March 2013.                 46 See note 43.

41 American Public Transportation           47 Oregon Department of
Association, Impacts of the Recession on    Transportation, Six Trends Spell Trouble
American Public Transportation Agencies,    for Transportation Funding, 8 November,
2011 Update, August 2011.                   2011, accessed at cms.oregon.gov/odot/
                                            govrel/pages/news/110811a.aspx.
42 Bicycling: Alliance for Biking &
Walking, Bicycling and Walking in the       48 Washington State Office of Financial
U.S. 2012 Benchmarking Report, January      Management, Transportation Revenue
2012, accessed at blog.bikeleague.          Forecast Council, November 2010
org/blog/2012/10/infographic-bike-          Transportation Economic and Revenue
commuting-growing-faster-in-bicycle-        Forecasts, 18 November 2010.
friendly-communities/.
                                            49 State Smart Transportation Initiative,
43 U.S. Department of Transportation,       SSTI Review of Washington State DOT's
Federal Highway Information                 Sustainability Efforts, 2011, 7.
Administration, Highway Statistics
series of reports; data available at www.   50 Washington State Department of
fhwa.dot.gov/policyinformation/             Transportation, Projected and Reported
quickfinddata/qffuel.cfm; Washington        Revenue, accessed at www.wsdot.wa.gov/
State Department of Licensing,              Tolling/TNBTolling/TNBLibrary.htm,
personal communication with Clark           29 April 2013.




                                                                                          Notes 57
                     51 Washington State Transportation               Estimates, downloaded from www.census.
                     Council, Background Paper #7: Tacoma             gov/popest/data/historical/index.html
                     Narrows Bridge Toll Policy, 20 September         (for 1970-2011), and U.S. Census Bureau,
                     2006, Table 7.6.                                 National Estimates by Age, Sex, Race: 1900-
                     52 Zachary Howard and Clark                      1979 (PE-11), accessed at www.census.
                     Williams-Derry, Sightline Institute,             gov/popest/data/national/asrh/pre-1980/
                     How Much Do Drivers Pay for a Quicker            PE-11.html (for 1960-1969).
                     Commute?, 1 August 2012, available at
                     daily.sightline.org/2012/08/01/how-              59 See note 57.
                     much-do-drivers pay-for-a-quicker
                     commute/.                                        60 U.S. Department of Transportation,
                                                                      2009 National Household Travel Survey,
                     53 Mike Lindblom, "Key State                     data obtained from the NHTS data
                     Lawmaker Wants Highway 99 Tunnel                 extraction tool, accessed at nhts.ornl.gov/
                     Tolls Kept Low," Seattle Times, 17               det/, 1 May 2013.
                     September 2012.
                                                                      61 See note 57.
                     54 Mike Lindblom, "Gregoire
                     Announces Tunnel Plans; Car-tab Taxes            62 Barry Sweedler, "History and
                     to Pay for More Transit," Seattle Times,         Effects of Graduated Licensing and
                     13 January 2009.                                 Zero Tolerance," in the Transportation
                                                                      Research Board of National Academies,
                     55 This table is inspired by a similar           Transportation Research Circular; Number
                     graphic in Todd Litman, Victoria                 E-C132; Young Impaired Drivers; The
                     Transport Policy Institute, The Future           Nature of the Problem and Possible Solutions,
                     Isn't What it Used to Be: Changing Trends        June 2009.
                     and Their Implications for Transport
                     Planning, 27 December 2012.                      63 Vehicle-miles traveled: see note
                                                                      2; population statistics: U.S. Census
                     56 M. Leanne Lachman and Deborah                 Bureau, Historical Population Estimates,
                     L. Brett, Urban Land Institute and ULI           downloaded from www.census.gov/
                     Foundation, Generation Y: America's New          popest/data/historical/index.html (for
                     Housing Wave, 2011.                              1970-2011), and U.S. Census Bureau,
                                                                      Statistical Abstract of the United States,
                     57 Benjamin Davis and Tony                       2003, Table HS-1 (1936-1969); gross
                     Dutzik, Frontier Group, and Phineas              domestic product (chained 2005 dol-
                     Baxandall, U.S. PIRG Education Fund,             lars): U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis,
                     Transportation and the New Generation:           Current-Dollar and "Real" Gross Domestic
                     Why Young People Are Driving Less and            Product (Excel spreadsheet), 29
                     What it Means for Transportation Policy,         November 2012.
                     April 2012.
                                                                      64 Tri-State Transportation Campaign,
                     58 Source: Licensing statistics from U.S.        Tracking State Transportation Dollars,
                     Department of Transportaiton, Federal            downloaded from www.trackstatedollars.
                     Highway Administration, Highway Statis-          org/, 12 April 2013.
                     tics series of reports; population statistics:
                     U.S. Census Bureau, Historical Population        65 U.S. population is projected to in-




58 A New Direction
crease 23 percent between 2010 and          Eduardo Santana, "New Study Shows
2040, while Wisconsin's population is       Young Americans' Declining Preference
projected to increase by 14 percent over    for Automobile Ownership," The
that same period of time. Sources: U.S.     Advisory, 3 December 2012.
Census Bureau, 2012 National Population
Projections: Summary Tables, downloaded     73 See note 71.
from www.census.gov/population/projec-
tions/data/national/2012/summarytables.     74 Cisco Systems, Air, Food, Water,
html, 29 April 2013; David Egan-Robert-     Internet: Cisco Study Reveals Just How
son, Wisconsin's Future Population, 2010-   Important Internet and Networks Have
2040: A First Look at the Next 30 Years,    Become as Fundamental Resources in Daily
prepared for Wisconsin Department of        Life (news release), 21 September 2011.
Administration, July 2012.
                                            75 Steve Hargreaves, "Young Americans
66 American Association of State            Ditch the Car," CNNMoney, 17
Highway and Transportation Officials,       September 2012.
Rough Roads Ahead: Fix them Now or Pay
for It Later, May 2009.
                                            76 Nielsen, "Smartphones Account for
                                            Half of All Mobile Phones, Dominate
67 Center for Economic Development,
                                            New Phone Purchases in the U.S.,"
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Out
                                            NielsenWire (blog), 29 March 2012.
of Service: The Impact of Transit Cuts on
Access to Jobs in Metropolitan Milwaukee,
October 2008.                               77 Nielsen, "Young Adults and Teens
                                            Lead Growth Among SmartphoneUsers,"
                                            NielsenWire (blog), 10 September 2012.
68 Gregg Logan, RCLCO, "RCLCO
Forecast: Understanding the Demand
for New Housing," The Advisory, 28          78 Pew Internet and American
February 2012.                              Life Project, Trend Data (Adults):
                                            Who's Online, downloaded from
69 Beldon Russonello & Stewart LLC          www.pewinternet.org/Trend-Data-
(Conducted for the National Association     %28Adults%29/Whos-Online.aspx, 8
of Realtors), The 2011 Community            January 2013.
Preference Survey; What Americans Are
Looking for When Deciding Where to Live,    79 Pew Internet and American Life
March 2011.                                 Project, Smartphone Research: Infographic,
                                            17 September 2012.
70 See note 56.
                                            80 Aaron Smith, Pew Internet and
71 Zipcar, Millennials & Technology:        American Life Project, Americans and
A Survey Commissioned by Zipcar             Text Messaging, 19 September 2011.
(Powerpoint presentation), February
2013, accessed at /www.slideshare.net/      81 Cisco Systems, Cisco Connected World
Zipcar_Inc/millennial-slide-share-final-    Technology Report: Gen Y: New Dawn
16812323.                                   for Work, Play, Identity, downloaded
                                            from www.cisco.com/en/US/solutions/
72 Bob Gardner, Emily Laetz and             ns341/ns525/ns537/ns705/ns1120/2012-




                                                                                         Notes 59
                     CCWTR-Chapter1-Global-Results.pdf,            and land-use planning, which is to
                     8 January 2013.                               evaluate the potential outcomes of
                                                                   various strategic planning decisions
                     82 See note 71.                               (e.g., adopting a plan that emphasizes
                                                                   "smart growth" style development as
                     83 Lei Tang and Piyushimita (Vonu)            opposed to one that enables sprawl-style
                     Thakuriah, "Ridership Effects of              development).
                     Real-Time Bus Information System:
                     A Case Study in the City of Chicago,"         90 The scenarios are based on
                     Transportation Research Part C, 22: 146-      assumptions of how driving behavior will
                     161, 2012, doi:10.1016/j.trc.2012.01.001.     change among members of specific age
                                                                   groups and generational cohorts relative
                     84 A broad range of values has                to behavior at a defined moment in time.
                     been found for the degree to which            Because the last date for which reliable
                     participation in car-sharing reduces          data on age-specific driving patterns
                     vehicle travel. A 2009 literature review      was 2009, we began the scenarios in that
                     of the North American car-sharing             year. The decision to begin the scenarios
                     experience calculated an estimated 44         in 2009 (rather than align the scenarios
                     percent reduction in vehicle distance         to the aggregate VMT data for 2010-
                     traveled based on the results of car-         2012) has no bearing on aggregate VMT
                     sharing user surveys. Source: Susan           beyond 2020 (for the Back to the Future
                     A. Shaheen, Adam P. Cohen and                 and Enduring Shift scenarios) or 2025 (for
                     Melissa S. Chung, "North American             the Ongoing Decline scenario).
                     Carsharing: 10-Year Retrospective,"
                     Transportation Research Record: Journal of    91 National Surface Transportation
                     the Transportation Research Board, 2110:      Infrastructure Financing Commission,
                     35-44, 2009.                                  Paying Our Way: A New Framework for
                                                                   Transportation Finance, February 2009.
                     85 Margaret Walls and Elena Safirova,         The commission's report assumed that
                     Resources for the Future, A Review            light-duty vehicle travel would increase
                     of the Literature on Telecommuting and        by an average of 1.6 percent per year and
                     its Implications for Vehicle Travel and       that travel in heavy-duty trucks would
                     Emissions, December 2004.                     increase by an average of 1.8 percent
                                                                   per year. Those assumed growth rates
                                                                   are applied here to 2008 vehicle-miles
                     86 See note 71.
                                                                   traveled for each type of vehicle, and
                                                                   carried through to 2040.
                     87 Rebecca Shafer, "Nextbus: A Broken
                     Metrobus Arrival App Demonstrates a
                                                                   92 U.S. Department of Transportation,
                     Key Problem with Open Government
                                                                   2010 Status of the Nation's Highways
                     Data," Slate.com, 22 January 2013.
                                                                   Bridges and Transit: Conditions &
                                                                   Performance, Report to Congress, undated,
                     88 Transportation Research Board, The         available at www.fhwa.dot.gov/policy/
                     Future Highway Transportation System and      2010cpr/pdfs/cp2010.pdf. The report's
                     Society, National Academies Press, 1997.      baseline case assumes an average annual
                                                                   rate of VMT growth over 20 years of
                     89 The term "scenario analysis" is often      1.85 percent, which is predicated on
                     used in a different sense in transportation



60 A New Direction
the maintenance of a consistent level of    Status of the Nation's Highways, Bridges and
service on the nation's roads. We applied   Transit: Conditions & Performance, undated,
the annual growth rate to 2008 levels       accessed at www.fhwa.dot.gov/policy/
of vehicle travel. The U.S. DOT also        2010cpr/pdfs/cp2010.pdf 8 April 2013.
modeled an alternative case in which
VMT growth was held to 1.23 percent         103 Cambridge Systematics with
per year. That case yields an estimate      Alan E. Pisarski, Bottom Line Technical
of aggregate VMT in 2040 that also          Report: Highway and Public Transportation
exceeds all three scenarios described in    National and State Investment Needs,
this report.                                prepared for American Association
                                            of State Highway and Transportation
93 U.S. Department of Energy, Energy        Officials (AASHTO), March 2009.
Information Administration, Annual
Energy Outlook 2013 Early Release, 5        104 Pavia Systems, Pavement Interactive:
December 2012. The Annual Energy            Deisgn: Equivalent Single Axle Load, 15
Outlook includes annual forecasts of        August 2007, accessed at www.pavemen-
VMT, which are included here.               tinteractive.org/article/equivalent-single-
                                            axle-load/.
94 Tim Lomax, David Schrank and Bill
Eisele, Texas Transportation Institute,     105 Based on VMT for combination
2012 Urban Mobility Report, February        trucks. See note 2.
2013. Based on average for 498 urbanized
areas studied.                              106 For further discussion, see Tony
                                            Dutzik and Benjamin Davis, Frontier
95 U.S. Census Bureau, Historical           Group, and Phineas Baxandall, U.S.
Population Estimates downloaded from        PIRG Education Fund, Do Roads Pay for
www.census.gov/popest/data/historical/      Themselves? Setting the Record Straight on
index.html, 5 December 2012.                Transportation Funding, January 2011.

96 Inrix, INRIX Traffic Scorecard           107 Gasoline tax revenue is often used
Reports U.S. Congestion on the Rise in      for purposes other than highways. At
2013 Following Two Years of Double-Digit    the federal level, some highway fuel
Declines (news release), 24 April 2013.     tax revenue is used to finance public
                                            transportation investments through the
97 See note 94.                             Mass Transit Account of the Highway
                                            Trust Fund, while other revenues can be
98 45 percent: See note 36.                 used to support bicycling, pedestrian and
                                            other projects. Some states not only allow
                                            gasoline tax revenue to be used for non-
99 Ibid.
                                            automotive forms of transportation but
                                            also use fuel taxes as a source of general
100 Ibid.                                   revenue.

101 Ibid.                                   108 Based on comparison between
                                            highway user revenue "receipts available
102 U.S. Department of Transportation,      for distribution" and "total current
Federal Highway Administration, 2010        disbursements" for highways for all levels




                                                                                           Notes 61
                     of government from U.S. Department            115 Associated Press, "85-MPH Toll
                     of Transportation, Federal Highway            Road Revenue Falls Short of Need,"
                     Administration, Highway Statistics series     Star-Telegram (Fort Worth, Tex.), 8 April
                     of reports, Table HF-10. An alternate         2013.
                     measure created by the Pew Charitable
                     Trusts places the percentage of highway       116 Phineas Baxandall, U.S. PIRG
                     expenses covered by user fees even lower,     Education Fund, and Kari Wohlschlegel
                     at 51 percent. Our measure is more            and Tony Dutzik, Frontier Group,
                     conservative in that it counts driving user   Private Roads, Public Costs: The Facts About
                     fees as funding roads even if, in fact, a     Toll Road Privatization and How to Protect
                     portion of the funds are spent on other       the Public, Spring 2009.
                     modes of transportation. Source: Pew
                     Charitable Trusts, Subsidyscope: Analysis     117 Robert Poole, Reason Foundation,
                     Finds Shifting Trends in Highway Funding:     "The Perils of Availability Payment
                     User Fees Make Up Decreasing Share, 25        Concessions," Surface Transportation
                     November 2009.                                Newsletter, 107, 19 September 2012.

                     109 For a review of the declining value       118 U.S. Department of Energy, Energy
                     of the motor fuel taxes in the states, see    Information Administration, Annual
                     Institute on Taxation and Economic            Energy Outlook series of reports. All pro-
                     Policy, Building a Better Gas Tax: How        jections reflect the EIA's reference case.
                     to Fix One of State Government's Least        "2013 early" refers to the Annual Energy
                     Sustainable Revenue Sources, December         Outlook 2013 Early Release released in
                     2011.                                         December 2012. "2009 revised" refers to
                                                                   the updated Annual Energy Outlook 2009
                     110 See note 2.                               Reference Case service report published
                                                                   in April 2009 following enactment of the
                     111 See note 93.                              American Recovery and Reinvestment
                                                                   Act and the revision of economic data
                     112 Gasoline tax revenues are calculated      to reflect the severe late 2008 recession.
                     on a calendar year basis. Our estimate of     Note that in the final Annual Energy Out-
                     calendar year 2011 gasoline tax revenues,     look 2013, released in late April 2013, the
                     $23.6 billion, compares with estimated        EIA produced a "Low/No Net Imports"
                     fiscal year 2011 revenues of $24.0 billion,   side case that posited far slower growth
                     per Joseph Kile, Congressional Budget         in VMT, similar to the Enduring Shift
                     Office, The Highway Trust Fund and            scenario in this paper.
                     Paying for Highways, Testimony before
                     the Committee on Finance, United              119 Kevin Ramsey, U.S. Environmental
                     States Senate, 17 May 2011.                   Protection Agency, Residential
                                                                   Construction Trends in America's
                     113 Institute on Taxation and Economic        Metropolitan Regions: 2012 Edition,
                     Policy, Building a Better Gas Tax: How        December 2012.
                     to Fix One of State Government's Least
                     Sustainable Revenue Sources, December         120 Hope Yen and Kristen Wyatt,
                     2011.                                         "Cities Grow More than Suburbs, First
                                                                   Time in 100 Years," NBCNews.com, 28
                     114 Ibid.                                     June 2012.




62 A New Direction
121 See, for example, the State Smart           Ortuzar, et al., "Continuous Mobility
Transportation Initiative, www.ssti.us.         Surveys: The State of Practice," Transport
                                                Reviews, 31(3): 293-312, doi: 10.1080/0144
122 Sierra Club's 2012 list of best and         1647.2010.510224, May 2011.
worst transportation projects includes
several projects that were conceived of         130 The number of licensed drivers
between the 1940s and 1960s and at least        was divided by the number of years in
one of which dates to the turn of the           each age group to arrive at an estimated
20th century. Source: Sierra Club, Smart        number of licensed drivers by year of age
Choices, Less Traffic: 50 Best and Worst        and gender.
Transportation Projects in the United States,
November 2012.                                  131 The use of non-NHTS estimates of
                                                population and the number of licensed
123 Smart Growth America and                    drivers means that the aggregate house-
Taxpayers for Common Sense, Repair              hold VMT estimates that form the basis
Priorities: Transportation Spending             of these scenarios differ from the aggre-
Strategies to Save Taxpayer Dollars and         gate household VMT figures from the
Improve Roads, June 2011.                       NHTS. We opted to use population and
                                                driver's licensing data from other sources
124 See note 102.                               in order to minimize the impact of sam-
                                                pling error in the NHTS. A comparison
125 See note 93.                                of NHTS estimates of population and
                                                licensed drivers by age group with Cen-
                                                sus Bureau and FHWA sources suggests
126 Victoria Transport Policy Institute,
                                                that the 2001 NHTS sample was skewed
"Least-Cost Transportation Planning,"
                                                toward males in the 18 to 24-year-old
in TDM Encyclopedia, 12 November 2010.
                                                demographic, toward older age groups,
                                                and toward drivers. A similar comparison
127 For more background on MAP-                 with the 2009 NHTS suggests that the
21's accountability measures, see               sample may be skewed toward drivers and
Transportation for America, Making              the young. The underrepresentation of
the Most of MAP-21: A Guide to the              younger Americans in the 2001 NHTS
2012 Federal Transportation Law ­ and           was acknowledged at the time of the
How to Use it for Positive Change in Your       data's release, and is discussed in greater
Community, accessed at t4america.org/           detail in Hart Nadav Feuer, Paradigm In-
wp-content/uploads/2012/11/MAP-21-              ertia in the U.S. National Household Travel
Handbook-Web.pdf, 8 April 2013.                 Survey (NHTS), 1 February 2006.

128 Minnesota adopted the first such            132 The exponent increases by 0.625
provision in 1923: Robert Puentes and           annually between 2020 and 2025.
Ryan Prince, Brookings Institution,
Fueling Transportation Finance: A Primer
                                                133 Ibid.
on the Gas Tax, March 2003.

                                                134 Based on comparison of household
129 Australia, Germany, the
                                                VMT from the 2009 National
Netherlands and Great Britain, for
                                                Household Travel Survey and total VMT
example, conduct travel surveys
                                                for 2009 from the Federal Highway
continuously or annually. Juan de Dios




                                                                                              Notes 63
                     Administration, Highway Statistics series   136 Frank Southworth, Tim Reuscher
                     of reports.                                 and Pat Hu, Estimation and Short Range
                                                                 Forecasting of County Level Vehicle Miles of
                     135 For example, the Federal Highway        Travel and Motor Fuel Use for the United
                     Administration changed its methodology      States (Through 2015), 26 March 2009.
                     for calculating vehicle-miles traveled
                     by vehicle type in 2007, making             137 Amanda Lenhard, Pew Internet &
                     comparisons between pre-2007 and post-      American Life Project, Adults and Social
                     2007 reports invalid. As a result, 2007     Network Websites, 14 January 2009.
                     is the earliest year for which accurate
                     time-series comparisons for commercial      138. See note 91.
                     vehicles can be made.




64 A New Direction
                         Pacificans for Highway 1 Alternatives
                                     c/o Hal Bohner
                       115 Angelita Avenue · Pacifica, CA 94044
                                   phone 650-359-4257
                                  hbohner@earthlink.net


                                             Sent by email
                                             May 4, 2013




Board of Trustees of the Pacifica School District
       Richard Faust, President rfaust@pacificasd.org
       Joan Weideman, Vice-President joanweideman@yahoo.com
       Andrea Gould, Clerk agould@pacificasd.org
       Matthew Levie, Vice Clerk mlevie@pacificasd.org
       Eric Ruchames, Member eruchames@pacificasd.org

Wendy Tukloff, Superintendent wtukloff@pacificasd.org


Re:     Highway 1 in Pacifica


Dear Trustees and Ms. Tukloff:

PH1A is an organization of Pacifica residents who are concerned about Caltrans' proposed plan to widen
Highway 1. As you may know the Caltrans project would widen the Highway to over twice its present
width and would significantly widen the intersections at Reina del Mar and Fassler Avenues. The
construction would last for years. The negative impact on all Pacificans is apparent. Many parents drive
their kids to school each morning and their commute would be made much longer throughout the
construction period. The intersection at Reina del Mar Avenue and Highway 1 would be a mess which
would be disruptive for all commuters in Pacifica and especially for parents who drive their kids to
Vallemar School. After completion, the project would leave the Reina del Mar intersection significantly
wider than it is now, which means a hazard for pedestrians, particularly children who cross there on
their way to and from school.

We are writing to you to request that the Pacifica School District consider the opportunities it has to
mitigate the traffic congestion and eliminate the need for Caltrans to engage in its massive construction
project. Even more importantly the District could reduce traffic congestion in the near future as
compared to the Caltrans project which might not even begin for years.

It is apparent that the District could take a number of actions to significantly reduce traffic congestion
on Highway 1. In 2010 Caltrans held public meetings in Pacifica to discuss its proposed widening project
and during those meetings Pacifica residents noted that traffic congestion on Highway 1 during the AM

1|Page
commute period is far worse when school is in session as compared to when school is not in session.
The District has hired traffic consultants, Alta Planning, as part of the Safe Routes to School program,
and Alta Planning has produced a report dated June 2012 ( for your reference we have attached the
report - Pacifica SR2S Summary Report 2012-06-08 smaller file size.pdf) We have studied the Alta
Planning Report and find much in it which supports this conclusion, as we will explain below.

We are suggesting both District-wide changes and changes affecting only Vallemar School.

1.      District-Wide Actions

Specifically, concerning District-wide actions, 1) the District could alter the starting times of some or all
schools in the District so the starting times do not coincide with peak commute time; 2) The District
could improve its Internet-based program which facilitates carpooling by parents; 3) the District could
implement a school bus program.

        1.1     Alter starting times

Data in the Alta Planning Report strongly suggests that altering the starting times of the schools would
significantly reduce traffic congestion. The Report indicates Pacifica schools have open enrollment so
that regardless of where a student lives he or she can enroll in a school anywhere in Pacifica. According
to our calculations, based on information in the report there are over 3000 students in the district.
Depending on the school between 55% and 78% are driven to school, and 34% are driven more than two
miles each day. Per week children are driven to school at total of 1730 miles. Most of the schools in
Pacifica begin between 8:19 and 8:30 AM which coincides with at the peak commute time. (See our
Table 1, attached.)

        1.2     Car pooling

We understand that the District has an Internet-based car pool program called SchoolPool matching.
https://www.schoolpool.511.org/?client=pacificasd This program would seem to have the potential to
improve school-related traffic significantly. However, it does not appear to be effective since the Alta
Planning Report indicates that for all Pacifica schools only a small percentage of children participate in
carpools. For example, the Report indicates that for Vallemar School 59% of the students are driven to
school while only 6% participate in carpools. (pg 7-5, pg 81 of 192) In our experience the SchoolPool
matching program is not encouraged or widely publicized and most parents are not aware of it.

        1.3     School Buses

Providing school buses would reduce traffic congestion for the same reasons as would car pooling as
explained above. Of course, none of the schools in Pacifica have buses, although in the past school
buses were used in Pacifica.

2.      Vallemar School only

The Alta Planning report notes that Vallemar School is located on Reina del Mar Avenue, two blocks
from the intersection of Reina del Mar Avenue with Highway 1. The Report states:



2|Page
        A significant challenge for walking and bicycling to Vallemar Elementary School
        is that it is not a neighborhood school and students enroll from all over Pacifica.
        Only a small percentage of students live in the surrounding neighborhood, and
        Pacifica's neighborhoods are isolated from one another by steep hills and
        Highway 1. (pg 7-1, pg 77 of 192)

The report goes on to note that in the AM 75% of students are driven to school. (pg 7-1, pg 77 of 192)
Although not noted in the report it is well known that the beginning of school in the morning coincides
with peak commuter traffic. Some of our members live near the school, and it is obvious that the traffic
to and from the school is a major contributor to congestion at the intersection of Reina del Mar Avenue
and Highway 1.

How can the District improve traffic on Highway 1? We will offer a number of suggestions; the first is
simple - start the school either earlier or later, at a time which does not directly coincide with peak
commuter traffic. The second suggestion is more complex and we call it a "walking school bus" solution.
The third is to provide places parents can park near the school and then walk with their child to school.

        2.1     Altered School Start Time

There are 560 students enrolled at the school, and school begins at 8:19 AM for grades 4-8. The Alta
Planning Report (pg 7-1, pg 77 of 192) indicates that 75% of the students are driven to school and most
live a mile or more from school. Alta Planning Report (pg 7-2, pg 78 of 192 and pg 7-5, pg 81 of 192) All
cars driving to the school must pass through the intersection of Reina del Mar and Highway 1.

        2.2     Walking School Bus

The concept of a walking school bus is recommended on page 7-11 of the Alta Planning report (in the
section titled "Cabrillo Highway Intersection"), which states, "There is a small parking lot that serves
local businesses such as the Vallemar Bar and Grill and P-town coffee. Some parents discussed the
possibility of using this area as an additional parking location. Adjacent to the bus stop, it might also
provide a starting point for a walking school bus." (pg 7-9, pg 85 of 192) To clarify, by a "walking school
bus" we understand the report to mean that a place is established where parents can park to drop off
their kids and the kids can gather in a group ( a "bus") and then walk together to the school under adult
supervision. (We are attaching a drawing marked up to show what we believe to be the intended
parking lot.)

How would the walking school bus system improve traffic on Highway 1? We believe that during the
AM commute many parents drive north toward San Francisco, and presently they need to turn right
onto Reina del Mar Avenue, drive two blocks to drop off their kids and then return to the intersection
and get back on Highway 1 and head north. These maneuvers require that the traffic signal give a green
light to traffic traveling east and west on Reina del Mar which of course requires longer red lights for
northbound traffic on Highway 1. However, the parking lot could be altered to provide entry from and
exit to Highway 1 directly. Then parents could easily enter the lot from Highway 1, drop their kids off
and return to Highway 1 - all without going right onto Reina del Mar Avenue and then having to get back
onto Highway 1. (Unfortunately, if Caltrans widens the highway as proposed, the effect on the parking
lot is not clear; however it appears that the parking lot would be significantly reduced in size or perhaps
eliminated.)


3|Page
A modification of this idea could be to locate the walking school bus drop off location at the Pacifica
Police Station which is immediately north of the Reina del Mar intersection, and this might result in an
even better traffic pattern at the Reina del Mar intersection. Moreover, there is presently a driveway
adjacent the Police Station leading to Vallemar School where the "school bus" could travel. (See the
attached drawing.)

A similar walking school bus could be provided for parents who live north of Vallemar School. Those
parents could drop their kids at the parking lot just to the west of the Renia del Mar intersection, also
shown on the attached drawing. Or those parents could make a U-turn and then use the walking school
bus lot at the police station.

These walking school bus locations would enable parents to avoid having to drive through the Reina del
Mar signal and then drive along Reina del Mar, drop off their child and then return to the signal. Not
only would this relieve congestion at the signal and allow more green time for north bound commuters
it would also benefit the parents who could avoid the messy traffic situation at Vallemar School.
Moreover, less traffic on Reina del Mar would make the area around the school safer for children who
are walking there.

        2.3     Park and Walk opportunities

The concept of park and walk locations is explained in the Alta Planning Report (pg 8-9, pg 99 of 192) as
follows:

        Park and Walk

        Pacifica does not have neighborhood schools; students are dispersed
        throughout the city and may live a significant distance away from their schools.
        This and the city's hilly topography create barriers to walking and bicycling. Park
        and Walk programs designate meeting points where parents can drop their
        children off and either walk the last leg of the journey into school or link them
        with other parents who can complete the journey to school with their children.
        Such a program can disperse congestion through a larger area around the
        school site and demonstrate solidarity with their peers who walk and bike to
        school. Most schools in Pacifica have nearby sites that could serve as Park and
        Walk locations.

We have seen an example of the Park and Walk concept in action. Some of our members live in the
Vallemar District of Pacifica and drive their children to Ocean Shore School. We have observed that
traffic becomes congested in the school parking lot just before the morning starting time. However, to
avoid the congestion many parents park in the neighborhood surrounding the school and then walk with
their children to the school. This same opportunity exists at Vallemar School but parents do not seem to
avail themselves of the walking options. Some possible park and walk locations for Vallemar School are
the following (shown on our attached drawing) 1) the parking lot just to the west of the Reina del Mar
signal; 2) the parking lot at the sewage treatment plant; 3) west Fairway Park neighborhood. Another
opportunity could be provided at that parking lot of the Pacifica Police Station - this would require the
City of Pacifica to participate by opening the lot to parents for a short time in the mornings.



4|Page
We suggest that the District and Vallemar School encourage parents to use these park and walk
opportunities which would not only help relieve traffic congestion for all Pacifica commuters but also
allow parents and children to experience the benefits of walking to school.

Thank you for your consideration of our comments. Please let us have your response to our
suggestions.


Sincerely,




Hal Bohner




Ron Maykel,
Members of Pacificans for Highway 1 Alternatives (PH1A)




5|Page
                                           Table 1
                                    Kids driven to school

School           Total      Start time       Percentage    Approx.          Weekly miles
                 enrollment                  driven to     distance to      traveled by
                                             school - AM   school           driving

Cabrillo         554         8:20            72%           46% > 1 mile     600 (pg 8-20)
                                                           / 22% > 2
                                                           miles (pg 8-
                                                           16)
Ingrid B. Lacy   612         8:57            55%           89% > 1 mile     325 (pg 8-32)
                                                           / 53% > 2
                                                           miles
Ocean Shore      ?           8:25            74%           60% > 1 mile     225 (pg 8-44)
                                                           / 38% > 2
                                                           miles (pg 8-
                                                           40)
Ortega           560         8:30            78%           55% > 1 mile     350 (pg 8-56)
                                                           /22% > 2
                                                           miles (pg 8-
                                                           52)
Sunset Ridge     660         8:25            78%           54% > 1 mile     90 (pg 8-68)
                                                           /46% > 2
                                                           miles (pg 8-
                                                           64)
Vallemar         560         8:19 and 8:30   75%           71% > 1 mile     140 (pg 8-80)
                             AM                            /38% > 2
                                                           miles (pg 8-
                                                           74)

Total            2946                                      34 % > 2         1730
                                                           miles (pg 8-4)




6|Page
7|Page
