         ROAD SAFETY AUDIT
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/
              West Spring Street

                Town of Avon
                   May 2012



                                         Prepared for:
            Massachusetts Department of Transportation




                                        Prepared by:
                      Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates
                                   38 Chauncy Street
                                   Boston, MA 02111
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




Table of Contents 

                                                                                                                                               
Background ................................................................................................................................. 2


                                                                                                                                                
Project Data................................................................................................................................. 2


                                                                                                                                     
Project Location Description ..................................................................................................... 4


                                                                                                         
Road Safety Audit Observations and Potential Enhancements .............................................6

     Safety Issue #1.             Lane Use ............................................................................................................. 7 
                                                                                                                                                          

     Safety Issue #2.             Sight Distance/Intersection Geometry ................................................................ 8                 

     Safety Issue #3.             Intersection Operations ..................................................................................... 10        

     Safety Issue #4.             Pavement Markings .......................................................................................... 10         

     Safety Issue #5.             Pedestrian Accommodations............................................................................. 11               

     Safety Issue #6.             Signage ............................................................................................................. 12 
                                                                                                                                                          

     Safety Issue #7.             Travel Speed ..................................................................................................... 13   

     Safety Issue #8.             General Corridor-wide Issues ........................................................................... 13             


                                                                                                                                         
Recommendations ..................................................................................................................... 15




List of Appendices
Appendix A.           RSA Meeting Agenda 
Appendix B.           RSA Audit Team Contact List 
Appendix C.           Detailed Crash Data 
Appendix D.           Traffic Volume Data 


List of Figures
Figure 1.                                                                                                                                                 
                Locus Map.............................................................................................................................. 3

Figure 2.       East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street ...................................... 5                               



List of Tables
Table 1.        Participating Audit Team Members ....................................................................................... 2 
                                                                                                                                          

Table 2.        Summary of Potential Safety Enhancements ....................................................................... 16       





                                                                                                                                              Page 1
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




Background
The intersection of East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street in the Town of
Avon, Massachusetts, is listed in the Top 5% of High Crash Locations within the Old Colony Planning
Council (OCPC) area. As such, the Massachusetts Department of Transportation (MassDOT) conducted
a Road Safety Audit (RSA) to identify the safety issues and potential safety enhancements. The RSA
study area is illustrated in Figure 1.

In general, the RSA is intended to identify potential safety improvements that can be evaluated and
included as part of future design efforts for reconstruction. The short-term, low-cost potential
improvements could be considered by the responsible agency for immediate implementation, as
appropriate.


Project Data
The audit team conducted an RSA for the intersection of Route 28/East Spring Street/West Spring Street
on Wednesday, May 2, 2012. The RSA agenda appears in Appendix A. Table 1 lists the audit team
members and their affiliations. Appendix B provides contact information for all team members.

 Table 1. Participating Audit Team Members
 Audit Team Member                                 Agency/Affiliation
 Robert Spurr                                      Town of Avon Fire Department
 Edward P. Sarni                                   Town of Avon Highway Department
 Michael W. McCue                                  Town of Avon Town Administrator
 Frank Hegarty                                     Chair Avon Board of Selectmen
 Warren Phillips                                   Town of Avon Police Chief
 Robert Brady                                      Town of Avon Selectman
 Ray Guarino                                       Old Colony Planning Council (OCPC)
 Thomas Rebello                                    MassDOT, District 5 ­ Traffic Operations
 Bonnie Polin                                      MassDOT, Highway Division Safety Section
 Lisa Schletzbaum                                  MassDOT, Highway Division Safety Section
 Douglas Halpert                                   MassDOT, Highway Division Safety Section
 Ted Brovitz                                       Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates
 Joe SanClemente                                   Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates



Prior to the RSA, in order to begin assessing possible safety issues, the team reviewed collision diagrams
and a crash detail summary for the intersection of Route 28/East Spring Street/West Spring Street based
on crash records supplied by the Avon Police Department.




                                                                                                 Page 2
      Road Safety Audit
      East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon




      Figure 1.             Locus Map




                                                     E. M
                                                         ain
                                                             St.
                                                                 (R


                                                                                                         S    t.
                                                                   ou


                                                                                                  r  ing
                                                                  te



                                                                                           t    Sp
                                                                        28


                                                                                        as
                                                                           )


                                                                                     E
                       W. Main St.




                                                                                 .
                                                                               St
                                                                        ring
                                                                   p
                                                                tS
                                                           es                                      st   St.
Walmart                                                   W                                     Ea
                                                                         .
                                                                l  vd
                                                             nB
                                                     rr iso
                                                  Ha
                                                                                                Me
                                                                                                  mo
                                                                                                    ria
                                                                                     E. M




                                                                                                                          Walmart
                                                                                                       l Dr
                                                                                          ai



                                                                                                           . (R
                                                                                        n St.




                                                                                                               ou
                                                                                                                 te 2
                                                                                                                     8)




                RSA Focus Area


      Source: MassGIS



                Not to scale.                                                                                                       Not to scale.




      Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.                                                                                                 RSA Focu
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




From January 2009 through November 2011, 25 crashes were reported at the intersection, of which a
majority of the crashes were angle type (16 or 64%), occurring during daylight conditions (20 or 80%),
and on dry pavement (20 or 80%). Approximately 44% of the crashes resulted in personal injury; no
fatalities or pedestrian-related crashes were reported during this time period. Appendix C provides the
detailed crash data for the intersection. Traffic volume data are presented in Appendix D.


Project Location Description
The RSA focused on the intersection of Route 28/East Spring Street/West Spring Street in the Town of
Avon, as shown in the aerial image in Figure 2. The RSA team also commented on general safety issues
along the Route 28 corridor in the vicinity of the intersection.

Route 28/East Spring Street/West Spring Street is a four-way unsignalized intersection. The West Spring
Street eastbound approach intersects Route 28 at a fairly steep vertical downward grade before leveling
off at the intersection. The West Spring Street eastbound approach operates under stop sign control and
consists of one shared left-turn/through/right-turn lane.

The East Spring Street westbound approach intersects Route 28 at a slight vertical incline and also
operates under stop sign control. The East Spring Street westbound approach consists of one shared left-
turn/through/right-turn lane.

The Route 28 northbound approach is a free movement and consists of one shared left-turn/through lane
and one shared through/right-turn lane; however, field observations indicate that few vehicles travel
northbound through in the outside travel lane and larger vehicles typically make right-hand turns onto
East Spring Street from the inside travel lane. On the departure side of the intersection, Route 28
northbound tapers to just one travel lane approximately 75 feet north of East Spring Street. The Route 28
northbound approach has a crest vertical curve in the alignment approximately 150 south of East Spring
Street before leveling off at the intersection. Route 28 southbound consists of one lane and widens to 2
approximately 250 feet north of the intersection. At the intersection, the Route 28 southbound approach
consists is a free movement and consists of one shared left-turn/through lane and one shared
through/right-turn lane.

The Route 28 northbound and southbound travel lanes are separated by a raised landscaped median.
Several post-mounted, flashing yellow beacons are provided on the Route 28 northbound and southbound
approaches to alert motorists of the intersection and the presence of the median, while post-mounted,
flashing red beacons are provided for the West Spring Street eastbound and East Spring Street westbound
approaches to supplement the stop sign control. Pedestrian crosswalks are provided across all intersection
approaches with the exception of West Spring Street.




                                                                                                Page 4
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon




Figure 2. East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/
          West Spring Street


                                      E.
                                       M
                                        ai
                                           n
                                               St
                                                 .(




                                                                                                   t.
                                                 Ro




                                                                                                  S
                                                                                              ing
                                                     ut




                                                                                           r
                                                                                         Sp
                                                          e




                                                                                     t
                                                          28




                                                                                  as
                                                          )




                                                                              E




                                                      .
                                                    St
                                            ri ng
                                           p
                                        tS
                                     es
                                    W




                                                                              .
                                                                          Blvd
                                                                    s  on
                                                                 rri
                                                               Ha


Source: MassGIS



                                                                                                        Not to scale.
          Not to scale.




Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




The intersection forms the junction of the following roadways, which are categorized according to
MassDOT Office of Transportation Planning functional classifications:

East Main Street (Route 28) is an urban principal arterial and falls under MassDOT jurisdiction. East
Main Street (Route 28) is a north­south roadway and runs between Main Street to the north and the
Brockton Town Line to the south, where it turns into North Main Street. East Main Street is dedicated as
Route 28 between Main Street and Memorial Drive. In the vicinity of the intersection, Route 28 generally
consists of two travel lanes in each direction separated by a raised median. The speed limit along Route
28 is 40 miles per hour (mph).

East Spring Street is an urban minor arterial and falls under Town jurisdiction. East Spring Street is an
east­west roadway and runs between the Holbrook Town Line to the east, where it turns into Spring
Street, and Route 28 to the west. Within the vicinity of the intersection, East Spring Street consists of one
travel lane in each direction. The speed limit along East Spring Street is posted at 30 mph.

West Spring Street is a local roadway and falls under Town jurisdiction. West Spring Street is an east­
west roadway and runs between Route 28 to the east and West Main Street to the west. Within the study
area, West Spring Street consists of one travel lane in each direction; the speed limit is posted at 25 mph.


Road Safety Audit Observations and
Potential Enhancements
Based on field observations on Wednesday, May 2, 2012, the RSA team determined that the intersection
of Route 28/East Spring Street/West Spring Street has the following issues that affect safety:

        Unclear lane usage;
        Sight distance/intersection geometry;
        Worn pavement markings;
        Limited pedestrian accessibility;
        Worn and/or limited signage;
        Congestion and driver frustration; and
        Heavy vehicle activity and constrained turning radii.

The following sections describe in more detail the safety issues and enhancements determined during the
RSA. Several of these issues require further study and engineering judgment to determine the feasibility
of implementing enhancements to address them.




                                                                                                   Page 6
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




    Safety Issue #1. Lane Use
        Observations:
        Of the 16 angle type crashes reported at
        the intersection, 12 involved a motorist
        making a left-turn from the stop-sign-
        controlled East Spring Street westbound
        approach with a second vehicle traveling
        along Route 28 northbound. The Route
        28 northbound approach currently
        consists of one shared left-turn/through
        lane and one shared through/right-turn
        lane. Based on field observations, the
        team noted that the outside shared
        through/right-turn lane generally operates
        as a "de facto" right-turn lane due to the
        heavy right-turn volume onto East Spring
        Street. According to count data collected        "De facto" right-turn lane along Route 28
                                                         northbound adds to driver confusion.
        in September 2011, right-turns onto East
        Spring Street were as many as 275 to 486
        vehicles per hour during the morning and evening peak hours, respectively - accounting for
        approximately 30 to 60% of the approach volume during the peak hours. As a result, left-turners
        from East Spring Street eastbound often expect that Route 28 northbound motorists traveling
        along the outside lane are going to make a right-turn and may begin to enter the intersection
        prematurely. Team members noted that right-turning motorists often do not use their directional
        when making a right turn. An additional observation was that larger trucks typically use the
        Route 28 southbound left-hand lane (inside lane) to make a right-turn onto East Spring Street due
        to the limited turning radius at the intersection, which further contributes to motorist confusion.

        Enhancements:
        Evaluate the feasibility/appropriateness of re-striping the Route 28 northbound shared
        through/right-turn lane as a right-turn only lane to reduce driver confusion (short-term). Consider
        the resulting operational impacts/changes and safety benefits.




                                                                                                  Page 7
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




    Safety Issue #2. Sight Distance/Intersection Geometry
        Observations:
        From 2009 through 2011, 17 of the 

        reported crashes (or 68%) involved

        vehicles making a left-turn from East 

        Spring Street westbound with 

        vehicles traveling either along Route 

        28 northbound (12 crashes) or 

        southbound (4 crashes). One crash 

        involved a vehicle traveling along 

        East Spring Street westbound and 

        hitting a fixed object at the 

        southwest corner of the intersection. 

        The team made the following 

        observations regarding sight 

                                                   Vehicle queuing and slight vertical incline on East
        distance, heavy vehicle activity, and 

                                                   Spring Street westbound approach.
        intersection geometry. 


        Sight Distance

        The ability to make a left-turn is complicated by sight distance limitations at the southeast corner
        of the intersection caused by the combination of the slight vertical incline on the East Spring
        Street westbound approach and the presence of a small crest vertical curve approximately 150
                                                                     feet south of the intersection along
                                                                     Route 28 northbound. As a result,
                                                                     motorists at the East Spring Street
                                                                     westbound approach typically pull
                                                                     past the stop line, often encroaching
                                                                     on Route 28 northbound, to see
                                                                     oncoming traffic. RSA team members
                                                                     also noted that vehicles (particularly
                                                                     large trucks, which are prevalent along
                                                                     the corridor) traveling in the Route 28
                                                                     northbound outside lane often block
                                                                     the visibility of the vehicles traveling
                                                                     along the inside lane. A team member
                                                                     also mentioned that the lack of street
                                                                     lighting at the intersection might be a
          Limited sight lines south of intersection due to crest     possible problem with visibility at
          vertical curve in Route 28.                                night.




                                                                                                    Page 8
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




        Heavy Vehicle Activity/Intersection Geometry

        According to turning movement
        count data at the intersection,
        heavy vehicles account for
        approxiamteley 5 to 14% of all
        vehicles making a right-turn from
        Route 28 northbound onto East
        Spring Street. During field
        observations, the team noted that
        large heavy vehicles typically have
        to use the Route 28 northbound
        left-hand (inside) lane or both
        travel lanes to turn right onto East
        Spring Street. While in the field,
        team member also noted tire tracks
        at the southeast corner that suggest        Tire tracks over curb/sidewalk at southeast corner
        that some trucks drive over the             from large trucks.
        curb/sidewalk and/or over the
        double yellow center line (DYCL) on East Spring Street to make the turn. A team member noted
        that the radius at the southeast corner of the intersection was much larger prior to the last
        reconstruction project, than it is at the time of this audit.

        Enhancements:
            1. Evaluate the feasibility and appropriateness of geometric modifications to
               reduce/eliminate sight distance limitations, facilitate truck turns, and improve overall
               safety at the intersection. Geometric changes may include, but are not limited to,
               separation of the Route 28 northbound right-turn lane from the though lane with an island
               to increase the radius at the southeast corner and shifting the East Spring Street
               westbound stop line and crosswalk further west to improve sight lines and visibility of
               Route 28 northbound traffic and reducing the crest vertical curve in the Route 28
               alignment south of the intersection.

            2. Evaluate the feasibility and appropriateness of adding street lighting at the intersection to
               improve visibility.




                                                                                                   Page 9
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




    Safety Issue #3. Intersection Operations
        Observations:
        Team members noted that the left-turning vehicles at the stop-sign-controlled East Spring Street
        westbound approach generally have difficulty finding adequate gaps across four lanes of traffic
        along Route 28. These sight distance limitations identified above combined with a heavy left-
        turn volume on the East Spring Street westbound approach (370 vehicles during the morning peak
        hour and 266 vehicles during the evening peak hour) result in long vehicle queues and increased
        driver frustration. While in the field during the weekday morning peak hour, team members
        observed average queuing conditions on the East Spring Street westbound approach and noted
        average queues ranging between 6 and 10 vehicles in length. An RSA team member noted that
        queues can extend as far as the cemetery during the busiest time periods, well over 500 feet
        upstream of the stop line. OCPC staff noted that the intersection had previously been
        recommended for traffic signal installation as part of a 2006 Corridor Study along Route 28.

        Enhancements:
        Consider the appropriateness and safety/operations benefits of changes to traffic control at the
        intersection to full signalization to improve operating conditions, reduce driver frustration, and
        improve overall safety at the intersection.

    Safety Issue #4. Pavement Markings
        Observations:
        The team noted that stop line 

        pavement markings are provided on

        the Route 28 northbound and 

        southbound approaches in advance of 

        the crosswalk; however, these are 

        uncontrolled movements. A team

        member noted that the stop lines may

        have been left over from when the 

        intersection had a signalized pedestrian 

        crosswalk. As such, these pavement 

        markings may have simply been 

        repainted as part of ongoing

        maintenance at the intersection. 


        During field observations, the team

        also noted that the crosswalk and stop 
     Stop line pavement markings at Route 28 Northbound
                                                     and Southbound approaches add to driver confusion.
        line pavement markings across the 

        East Spring Street westbound approach 

        are worn. 





                                                                                                  Page 10
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




        Enhancements:
            1. Remove unnecessary stop line pavement markings at the Route 28 northbound and
               southbound approaches.

            2. Restripe and maintain crosswalk and stop line pavement markings at the East Spring
               Street westbound approach.




    Safety Issue #5. Pedestrian Accommodations
        Observations:
        Crosswalks are currently provided 

        across all of the intersection 

        approaches with the exception of 

        across West Spring Street. Field 

        observations indicate that 

        accessible curb ramps were

        recently installed across the East 

        Spring Street approach; however, 

        accessible curb ramps are not 

        provide for either of the Route 28 

        crossings. 


        According to count data collected
        at the intersection on a clear
        weather day in September 2011,          Accessible curb ramps are not provided across Route 28.
        very few pedestrians (less than 5
        per hour) were observed crossing Route 28. A team member noted that the pedestrian signals
        were removed in 1999. This member also noted that pedestrian crossing across the Route 28
        northbound approach may not be able to be safely accommodated with the existing condition,
        particularly given the high number of right turns from Route 28 onto East Spring Street (275 to
        486 vehicles per hour), the high number of left-turns from East Spring Street westbound onto
        Route 28 (266 to 370 vehicles per hour), and the potential for conflicts with pedestrians at that
        location. General concerns were raised by team members about pedestrian safety at the designate
        intersection crossings given the speed of traffic southbound on Route 28, and the difficulty of
        turning onto Route 28 from East and West Spring Street which diverts drive attention away from
        pedestrians.




                                                                                               Page 11
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




        Enhancements:
            1. Re-evaluate crosswalk locations at the intersection. Specifically, consider the need for a
               crosswalk across the West Spring Street eastbound approach and the safety benefits of
               eliminating the crosswalk across the Route 28 northbound approach to minimize vehicle
               ­ pedestrian conflicts.

            2. Consider the feasibility of installing accessible curb ramps at all pedestrian crossings.




    Safety Issue #6. Signage
        Observations:
        During field observations, the RSA team

        noted that the guide sign for "Harrison Blvd 

        Stoughton Sharon Next Right" along Route 

        28 southbound, south of the intersection is in 

        poor condition. 


        A team member also observed that there is a 

        tendency to for vehicles traveling on Route 28

        northbound to make a U-turn at the 

        intersection with East Spring Street/West 

        Spring Street.


        Enhancements:
            1. Replace damaged guide sign for 

               "Harrison Blvd Stoughton Sharon 
           Guide sign along Route 28 southbound is in
               Next Right" along Route 28
                 poor condition.
               southbound. 


            2. Consider the appropriateness of installing No U-Turn signage (R3-4) along Route 28
               northbound at the intersection with East Spring Street/West Spring Street if the U-turn
               movements are deemed unsafe and/or unwanted.




                                                                                                 Page 12
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




    Safety Issue #7. Travel Speed
        Observations:
        The speed limit along Route 28 is currently 40 miles per hour. A team member indicated that the
        speed limit seemed a little high, which may contribute to driver error and crash experience at the
        intersection. The Avon Police Chief noted that the department often enforces speed limits along
        Route 28 to the extent possible. The Chief also indicated that speed was not a major issue during
        the congested peak periods but was more of an issue at night.

        Enhancements:
        MassDOT should explore the potential for grant opportunities through the Executive Office of
        Public Safety to fund the use of a speed trailer to monitor travel speeds along Route 28 and/or
        have the MassDOT Traffic Counting Section collect speed data. Data collected from these efforts
        could then be used to identify the most appropriate times to focus speed enforcement.




    Safety Issue #8. General Corridor-wide Issues
        Observations:
        RSA team members noted that in order to adequately address safety issues at the intersection of
        Route 28/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, safety issues along the Route 28 corridor would
        also need to be addressed.

        Team members commented that much of the traffic along Route 28 and Harrison Boulevard are
        cut-through from neighboring Towns accessing the regional roadway network. Within the
        vicinity of the intersection, Route 28 serves as a major north­south roadway through the Town of
        Avon providing connections to Route 37 in Brockton to the south and Route 139 in Randolph to
        the north. Meanwhile, the intersection of Route 28/East Spring Street/West Spring Street is
        located approximately 350 feet north of Harrison Boulevard, which serves as a major east­west
        connection between Route 28 and Route 24 at Exit 19 (approximately 1.5 miles west of Route
        28). At Route 28, much of the traffic destined to/from points east, such as Route 37 in Holbrook,
        then utilizes East Spring Street. According to automated traffic count data collected in September
        2011, Harrison Boulevard carries approximately 16,300 vehicles per day and East Spring Street
        carries approximately 8,200 vehicles per day. The offset nature of East Spring Street with respect
        to Harrison Boulevard results in heavy turning volumes at the intersection of Route 28/East
        Spring Street/West Spring Street, as noted above.




                                                                                               Page 13
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




        Along Route 28, team members noted
        that heavy peak period traffic volumes
        combined with limited availability of
        dedicated turning lanes results in
        driver confusion and vehicle queuing
        along the corridor. For example, team
        members noted that motorists
        traveling along Route 28 southbound
        at the intersection with Harrison
        Boulevard generally merge to the
        outside lane to avoid getting trapped
        behind the left-turn queue at the
        shared left-turn/through lane at
        Walmart approximately 1,400 feet
        downstream of Harrison Boulevard.           Undefined merge area at Harrison Boulevard
        Team members suggested that such            departure lanes.
        merging at the intersection of Route
        28/Harrison Boulevard may contribute to queuing conditions along Route 28 southbound that,
        according to team members, often extend past West Spring Street during the evening peak period.
        Team members also commented that the Route 28 southbound queues may also be the result of
        Route 28 southbound right-turns onto Harrison Boulevard yielding to Route 28 northbound left-
        turning traffic. Field observations indicate that pavement markings are missing in the departure
        lane merge area on Harrison Boulevard resulting in a large undefined paved area.

        At the intersection of Route 28/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, 4 angle type crashes were
        reported involving East Spring Street westbound left-turners with motorists traveling along Route
        28 southbound. Team members noted that vehicle queues along Route 28 southbound extending
        through the intersection may have contributed to the occurrence of these crashes as East Spring
        Street westbound left-turning vehicles try to maneuver through the queue.

        Enhancements:
            1. Evaluate lane use and traffic operations along the Route 28 corridor between East Spring
               Street/West Spring Street and the traffic signal at the Walmart Driveway to improve
               queuing conditions, reduce driver confusion/frustration, and improve overall safety
               through the corridor. Consider the operational impacts/safety benefits of restriping the
               Route 28 southbound lanes to allow for a dedicate right-turn lane onto Harrison Avenue
               and coordination of the existing signals (and the appropriateness/operational benefits of a
               new signal at East/West Spring Street) along the corridor.

            2. Consider the appropriateness of adding pavement markings and signage along the
               Harrison Boulevard westbound departure lanes to formalize the merge area in an effort to
               improve queuing conditions along Route 28 southbound.




                                                                                               Page 14
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




Recommendations
    Based on its observations and discussions, the RSA team identified the issues and possible
    enhancements that could improve safety at the intersection of Route 28/East Spring Street/West
    Spring Street in the Town of Avon, Massachusetts. Further study and design work need to be
    conducted to determine the feasibility of making some of the improvements.

    Short-term enhancements include:

            Improve and maintain pavement markings and remove those that are unnecessary;

            Improve pedestrian accessibility;

            Monitor/enforce travel speed;

            Re-evaluate crosswalk locations;

            Replace damaged guide signage; and

            Evaluate potential changes in lane usage. 


    To enhance the safety of the intersection, the long-term enhancements are to: 


            Consider geometric modifications and/or changes to traffic control; and

            Evaluate lane usage and traffic operations along the Route 28 corridor.

    Table 2 summarizes these safety issues, possible enhancements, estimated safety payoff, time frame,
    cost, and responsibility. Safety payoff estimates are based on engineering judgment and are
    categorized as low, medium, and high. The time frame is categorized as short-term (<1 year), mid-
    term (1 to 3 years), or long-term (typically >3 years). Long-term improvements are typically
    considered to be substantial improvements with an expected time frame for implementation greater
    than 3 years. The costs are categorized as low (<$10,000), medium ($10,001 to $50,000), or high
    (>$50,000).

    The RSA is intended to identify potential safety improvements that can be evaluated and included as
    part of future design efforts for reconstruction. The short-term, low-cost potential improvements
    could be considered by the responsible agency for immediate implementation, as appropriate.




                                                                                             Page 15
 Road Safety Audit
 East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
 Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.



 Table 2. Summary of Potential Safety Enhancements
                                                                                             Safety
  Safety Issue                             Safety Enhancement                                Payoff   Time Frame    Cost    Responsible Party
                   Evaluate the feasibility/appropriateness of re-striping the Route
                   28 northbound shared through/right-turn lane as a right-turn only
Lane Use                                                                                     Medium   Short-term    Low         MassDOT
                   lane to reduce driver confusion. Consider the resulting
                   operational impacts/changes and safety benefits.
                   Evaluate the feasibility and appropriates of geometric
                   modifications to reduce/eliminate sight distance limitations,
                   facilitate truck turns, and improve overall safety at the
                   intersection. Geometric changes may include, but are not
                   limited to, separation of the Route 28 northbound right-turn lane
                                                                                                                              Town of Avon/
Sight Distance/    from the though lane with an island to increase the radius at the          High    Long-term     High
                                                                                                                                MassDOT
Intersection       southeast corner and shifting the East Spring Street westbound
Geometry           stop line and crosswalk further west to improve sight lines and
                   visibility of Route 28 northbound traffic and reducing the crest
                   vertical curve in the Route 28 alignment south of the
                   intersection.
                   Evaluate the feasibility and appropriateness of adding street                                              Town of Avon/
                                                                                              Low     Long-term    Medium
                   lighting at the intersection to improve visibility.                                                          MassDOT
                   Consider the appropriateness and safety/operations benefits of
Intersection       changes to traffic control at the intersection to full signalization to
                                                                                              High    Long-term     High        MassDOT
Operations         improve operating conditions, reduce driver frustration, and
                   improve overall safety at the intersection.
                   Remove unnecessary stop line pavement markings at the Route
                                                                                              Low     Short-term    Low         MassDOT
Pavement           28 northbound and southbound approaches.
Markings           Restripe and maintain crosswalk and stop line pavement                                                     Town of Avon/
                                                                                             Medium   Short-term   Medium
                   markings at the East Spring Street westbound approach.                                                       MassDOT




                                                                                                                                  Page 16
 Road Safety Audit
 East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
 Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.



 Table 2. Summary of Potential Safety Enhancements (continued)
                                                                                       Safety
  Safety Issue                       Safety Enhancement                                Payoff   Time Frame    Cost    Responsible Party
               Re-evaluate crosswalk locations at the intersection. Specifically,
               consider the need for a crosswalk across the West Spring Street
                                                                                                                        Town of Avon/
               eastbound approach and the safety benefits of eliminating the           Medium   Short-term    Low
Pedestrian                                                                                                                MassDOT
               crosswalk across the Route 28 northbound approach to
Accommodations minimize vehicle ­ pedestrian conflicts.
               Consider the feasibility of installing accessible curb ramps at all                                      Town of Avon/
                                                                                       Medium   Short-term   Medium
               pedestrian crossings.                                                                                      MassDOT
                   Replace damaged guide sign for "Harrison Blvd Stoughton
                                                                                        Low     Short-term    Low         MassDOT
                   Sharon Next Right" along Route 28 southbound.
Signage           Consider the appropriateness of installing No U-Turn signage
                  (R3-4) along Route 28 northbound at the intersection with East
                                                                                        Low     Short-term    Low         MassDOT
                  Spring Street/West Spring Street if the U-turn movements are
                  deemed unsafe and/or unwanted.
                  MassDOT should explore the potential for grant opportunities
                  through the Executive Office of Public Safety to fund the use of a
                  speed trailer to monitor travel speeds along Route 28 and/or                                          Town of Avon/
Travel Speed                                                                            Low     Short-term    N/A
                  have the MassDOT Traffic Counting Section collect speed data.                                           MassDOT
                  Data collected from these efforts could then be used to identify
                  the most appropriate times to focus speed enforcement.
                  Evaluate lane usage and traffic operations along the Route 28
                  corridor between East Spring Street/West Spring Street and the
                  traffic signal at the Walmart Driveway to improve queuing
                  conditions, reduce driver confusion/frustration, and improve
                  overall safety through the corridor. Consider the operational                                         Town of Avon/
                                                                                        High    Long-term    Medium
                  impacts/safety benefits of restriping the Route 28 southbound                                           MassDOT
General Corridor- lanes to allow for a dedicate right-turn lane onto Harrison
wide Issues       Avenue and coordination of the existing signals (and the
                  appropriateness/operational benefits of a new signal at
                  East/West Spring Street) along the corridor.
                  Consider the appropriateness of adding pavement markings and
                  signage along the Harrison Boulevard westbound departure
                                                                                        Low     Short-term    Low         MassDOT
                  lanes to formalize the merge area in an effort to improve
                  queuing conditions along Route 28 southbound.


                                                                                                                            Page 17
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




                     Appendix A. RSA Meeting Agenda 

Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




  Appendix B. RSA Audit Team Contact List 

Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




                         Appendix C. Detailed Crash Data 

                                                            ·'}~lllf!~~QQ[
                                                               I           

                                                                         jighway Division

                                                                  COLLISION DIAGRAM
CITY/TOWN :       ..;_A,;.;.v,;;,;on~,..;.;M;;.:.A..:....__ _ _ _ _ __                     DATE PREPARED:                              15-Mar-2012

REGION:                 OCPC                                                               PREPARED BY:                  D. Caiazzo & D. Halpert

ROADWAY NAMES:                                                  East Main Street (Route 28), East Spring Street and West Spring Street

TIME PERIOD ANALYZED:                    2009 - 2011
                                         ~~-------------------------------
SOURCE OF CRASH REPORTS:                                                 Local Police Department




EPDO = 65, 3 YEARS
*13 unable to be located
                         SYMBOLS                                                          TYPES OF CRASH                       SEVERITY
                                          Moving Vehicle                                                Head On
                   ((~
        ________.,.                       Backing Vehicle
                                          Non-Involved Vehicle
                                                                                                        Angle
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                              Injury Accident
                                          Pedestrian                                                    Turning Move

       --+1 ............... 1             Parked Vehicle
                                                                                        .. 1       ..   Rear End
          --+D                            Fixed Object                                                                             0
       --+~
                                                                                                                               Fatal Accident
                                          Bicycle                                                       Sideswipe


                                          Animal                                  c:s   cs     cs ..    Out of Control
                                                                                                      Crash Data Summary Table
                                                                                    Intersection of East Main Street (Rt. 28) and East/West Spring Street; Avon, MA 


' c...... Ollfa c...... o.v
               ~
                               TlmeoiO.V           Manner ol Colllalon
                                                          r,.                        Uahl Condition
                                                                                         r,.,.
                                                                                                            -c-
                                                                                                                 Jan. 2009- Dec. 2011 


                                                                                                                 J')lpe
                                                                                                                                      RoadSurfKa
                                                                                                                                         J')lpe
                                                                                                                                                          DriwrConlrlbullnaCode
                                                                                                                                                                      r,.,.               Dt
                                                                                                                                                                                                 "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                D2
                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                                                                                      03    D4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Commento

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Swerved to avoid truck & hit fire
 1   1127109       Tueodav     11:25 AM    Sinole Vehicle Craah          Davtlahl                        Claar                'o.v                  Exceedecf'authorized apeed limit       32                    hydrant & fence.
 2   4/8109        Wedneoday   6:58AM      Rear-end                      Daylight                        Clear                Dry                   Inattention
 3   5/9/09        Saturday    7:59AM      Anoia                         Dayllahl                        Rain                 Olhor                 Distracted                             35    34
 4   5128/09       Thuroday    1:15AM      Anglo                         Daylight                        Clear                Dry                   No Improper Driving                    30    52
 5   6/25/09       Thursday    9:23AM      Anglo                         Daylight                        Clear                Dry                   Unknown                                25    54
 6   8/14/09       Friday      10:13AM     Anglo                         Daylight                        Clear                Oty                   Failed lo yield lo right of way        19    60
 7   9/11/09       Friday      5:50PM      Rear-end                      Daylight                        Rain                 Wet                   Inattention                            54    30

 8 1219/09         Wodnaaday   9:00AM      Slnolo Vehicle Craah          Dayltghl                        Snow                 Snow                  No Improper Driving                    63                    Vehicle slid in snow and hit light pOle.
                                                                                                                                                    Oiaregarded traffic atgna, aignals,
 9 4125110         Sunday      3:55PM      Head on                       Dayltghl                       Claar                 Dry                   road markings                          58    44

10   6/10/10       Thuroday    12:48 PM    Anoia                         Dari< - lighted roadway         Rain                 Wet                   Failed lo yield lo right of way        23    28
11   6/27/10       Sunday      9:09AM      Anglo                         Daylight                       Clear                 Qry                   Unknown                                45    45
12   10/19/10      Tuooday     8:05AM      Anglo                         Daylight                       Clear                 Dry                   Failed lo yield lo right of way        31    20
13   10/22/10      Friday      2:20PM      Anglo                         Daylight                       Clear                 Drv                   No Improper Driving                    62    27              Not locateable.
14   1113/10       Wedneaday   9:15AM      Angla                         Dayltghl                       Claar                 Dry                   FaHed to yield to right ol way         62    45
15   11/9110       Tuesday     9:50AM      Angle                         Daylight                        Rain                 Wet                   FaHod to yield to right ol way         83    20
16   318111        Tuesday     6:14PM      Anole                         Dusk                           Clear                 Dry                   No Improper Driving                    22    52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Vehicle pari<ed on sidewalk. Vehicle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 was in gear when operator turned
17   6/20/11       Monday      2:30AM       Single Vehicle Crash         Davtlahl                       Clear                 Drv                   Inattention                            35                    vehicle on. Vehicle hit light pole.
18   8/18/11       Thuroday    11:25AM      Angle                        Daylight                       Clear                 Dry                   Failed to yield to right of way        61    34
19   8123/11       Tuaoday     5:45PM       Anglo                        Dayltghl                       Clear                 Dry                   Failed lo yield lo right of way        29    23
20   9/18/11       Sunday      11:30AM      Anoia                        Dayltghl                       Clear                 Dry                   Inattention                            29
21   10125111      Tuesday     6:45AM      jAngle                        Dawn                           Cloer                 Dry                   No Improper Driving                    17    42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Operator was trying to avoid accident
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (crash number 23) and in tum
22   11/11/11      Friday      3:52PM      Roar-end                      Daylight                       Clear                 l0rv                  Unknown                                41    50              resulted in a rear-end crash.
23   11/11/11      Friday      3:52PM      Unknown                       Daylight                       Clear                 Dry                   No Improper Driving                   unk   unk   unk
24   11123/11      Wednesday   8:10PM      Anoia                         Dark - lighted roadway         Claar                 Oty                   Failed Ia yield lo right of way        20    34
25   11/29/11      Tuaaday     5:00PM      Sldesv.1pa, same dlracUon     Dark -lighted roadway          Claar                 Dry                    al oa to yio1a to ngnl o way          22    20

OulofAroa


Summary based on Crash Reports obtained from the Avon Police Depar1ment
   Crash Data Summary Tables and Charts (E. Main St. (Rt. 28) and E/W Spring St.; Avon, MA)

                                                         CRASH MONTH
     30% .------------------
                                                                                                                 24%
     25%
     20%
     15%                                                                           1~/o- -          -1~·%

     10%
                                                                                                                          4%
      5%
                                                                          0%
      0% ~~~----~~~~~~~-r~~.---~~~~~--~Lo--~.-~~

                J         F       M          A           M       J         J         A        s        0          N           D


                                                   CRASH DAY OF WEEK
     30°~ .---------==~--------------------------------------.
     25%                                                                           ~0%
     20%                                   I- - -·1{5-0k             -16-%
     15%
     10%
                     4%                                                                              4%
      5%
       Oo/o   +-~--~~~--~.-~~~~~~--~~~--r-._~--.-~~~
                    Monday        Tuesday         VVednesday         Thursday        Friday        Saturday           Sunday



                                                   CRASH TIME OF DAY
     40o/o
     30°/o
     20°/o
     10o/o
       Oo/o            6-10AM          10-2PM                2-6PM              6-10PM            10-2AM              2-6AM




                                            CRASH MANNER OF COLLISION
     70o/o    ~------------~~·------------------------------~
     60%
     50%
     40%
     30%
     20%
     10%                                                                                                                4%.
      0%
                    Single      Rear-end         Angle       Sideswipe,   Sideswipe,     Head on       Rear to        Unknown
                    Vehicle                                     same       opposite                     Rear
                     Crash                                    direction    direction




Rte. 28 and VV . Spring Street summary.xls                            1 of 2                                                      3/14/2012
   Crash Data Summary Tables and Charts (E. Main St. (Rt. 28) and EIW Spring St.; Avon, MA)

                                           CRASH LIGHT CONDITION
    100%
     80%
     60%
     40%
     20%                                                                                 0%                      @o/o
      0%
                 Daylight      Dawn         Dusk       Dark-            Dark-             Dark        Other     Unknown
                                                       Lighted        Roadway           unknown
                                                      Roadway         not lighted       roadway
                                                                                         lighting



                                           CRASH WEATHER CONDITION
    100%
     80%
     60%
     40%
     20%                                                    6%         -t>%
        Oo/o   +-~~~---.~~,~=-.---~~---r----~----~---.----~




                                             CRASH ROAD SURFACE
     100%
            80%
      80% 

      60% 

      40% 

      20% 

                                                     0%             0%             0%         0%        0%
       0%
                    Dry        Wet         Snow      Ice         Sand,      Water             Slush     Other    Unknown
                                                               mud, dirt, (standing,
                                                               oil, gravel moving)



                                                  CRASH DRIVER AGES

      40% 

                               31%
      30% 
                                          -
                                            21%
      20% 
                                              44-o/o-           44%-
      10% 
        §o/tr
                                                                                                       0%         2%
        0% 

                   15-20        21-29        30-39         40-49           50-59          60-69        70-79       80+




Rte. 28 and W. Spring Street summary.xls                           2 of2                                                   3/14/2012
Road Safety Audit
East Main Street (Route 28)/East Spring Street/West Spring Street, Avon
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




                          Appendix D. Traffic Volume Data 

                                                                         Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                              70 School Street

                                                                             Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                508-583-1833

                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                         File Name     : East Main Street(Route 28) & East Spring_West Spring_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                          Site Code     : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                          Start Date    : 9/14/2011
Traffic Control: Two Way Stop                                                                           Page No       :1

                                                                          Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                         East Main Street (Route 28)               East Spring Street               East Main Street (Route 28)               West Spring Street
                                 Southbound                            Westbound                            Northbound                             Eastbound
    Start Time       Left Thru Right Peds App. Total       Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total       Left   Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
        Factor        1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0             1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0            1.0     1.0     1.0   1.0             1.0     1.0     1.0   1.0
     04:00 PM         15     100       1      0      116    76       3      8       1      88      2     82      94      0      178      0       4       0     0          4         386
     04:15 PM         17      94       1      0      112    60       6      3       0      69      2     96      99      0      197      1       1       0     0          2         380
     04:30 PM         17     111       3      3      134    51       7      8       0      66      3     91     100      0      194      0       1       0     0          1         395
     04:45 PM         15     102       2      0      119    64       5      6       0      75      0     90     116      0      206      0       2       2     2          6         406
          Total        64    407       7      3      481   251      21     25       1     298      7    359     409      0      775      1       8       2     2         13        1567

     05:00 PM         27    112       0      0      139     74      3      10      3       90      2    103    117        0     222      1      3      0      0           4         455
     05:15 PM         15    109       2      0      126     63      2       6      0       71      0     76    117        0     193      1      0      3      0           4         394
     05:30 PM         14     98       0      0      112     65      4       7      0       76      3     79    136        0     218      1      4      1      1           7         413
     05:45 PM          6     92       0      0       98     66      6       8      0       80      1     69    106        0     176      1      4      2      1           8         362
         Total        62    411       2      0      475    268     15      31      3      317      6    327    476        0     809      4     11      6      2          23        1624

  Grand Total        126    818       9       3     956    519     36      56      4      615     13    686    885        0    1584       5     19      8      4         36        3191
    Apprch %         13.2   85.6    0.9     0.3            84.4    5.9    9.1    0.7              0.8   43.3   55.9       0            13.9   52.8   22.2   11.1
      Total %         3.9   25.6    0.3     0.1      30    16.3    1.1    1.8    0.1     19.3     0.4   21.5   27.7       0     49.6    0.2    0.6    0.3    0.1        1.1
 FHWA Class 1-3      126    800       9       0    935     504     36      54      2     596      13    659    845        0    1517       5     17      8      0         30        3078
 % FHWA Class 1-3    100    97.8   100        0    97.8    97.1   100    96.4    50      96.9    100    96.1   95.5       0     95.8   100    89.5   100       0       83.3         96.5
 FHWA Class 4           0      4      0       0       4       0      0      0      2        2       0      6      1       0        7      0      0      0      2          2           15
 % FHWA Class 4         0    0.5      0       0     0.4       0      0      0    50       0.3       0    0.9    0.1       0      0.4      0      0      0    50         5.6          0.5
 FHWA Class 5-13        0     14      0       3      17      15      0      2      0       17       0     21     39       0       60      0      2      0      2          4           98
 % FHWA Class 5-13      0    1.7      0    100      1.8     2.9      0    3.6      0      2.8       0    3.1    4.4       0      3.8      0   10.5      0    50        11.1          3.1
                                                                            Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                 70 School Street

                                                                                Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                   508-583-1833

                                                                                  www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                          File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & East Spring_West Spring_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                           Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                           Start Date   : 9/14/2011
Traffic Control: Two Way Stop                                                                            Page No      :2

                                                                                East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                 Out        In      Total
                                                                                  718        935     1653
                                                                                     6         4        10
                                                                                    23        17        40
                                                                                  747        956     1703


                                                                                    9  800     126    0
                                                                                    0     4       0   0
                                                                                    0   14        0   3
                                                                                    9  818     126    3
                                                                                Right Thru    Left Peds
                                                    2
                                                    4
                                                   88


                                                   94


                                                        5
                                                        0
                                                        0
                                                        5




                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                Total




                                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                      1030



                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                           56


                                                                                                                           54




                                                                                                                                       988
                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                        41



                                                                                                                                        East Spring Street
                              West Spring Street




                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                          North
                                                                       0
                                                                       2
                                                                     17


                                                                     19
                                                        Peds Right Thru




                                                                                   9/14/2011 04:00 PM
                                          2
                                          4
                                         30


                                         36




                                                                                                                                36


                                                                                                                                36
                                       In




                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                   9/14/2011 05:45 PM




                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                 615


                                                                                                                                                 596
                                                                                                                                                  17
                                                                 8
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                 8




                                                                                                                        Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                         519


                                                                                                                         504
                                                                                   FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                                          15
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                   FHWA Class 4
                                 0
                                 0
                               58


                               58
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                         1645


                                                                                                                                                         1584
                                                                                   FHWA Class 5-13
                                                           0
                                                           2
                                                           2
                                                           4




                                                                                                                                                            58
                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                2




                                                                                 Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                   13    659   845    0
                                                                                      0     6    1    0
                                                                                      0   21    39    0
                                                                                   13    686   885    0


                                                                                 1312      1517      2829
                                                                                     4         7        11
                                                                                    29        60        89
                                                                                 1345      1584      2929
                                                                                 Out        In      Total
                                                                                East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                        Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                             70 School Street

                                                                                            Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                               508-583-1833

                                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                                File Name       : East Main Street(Route 28) & East Spring_West Spring_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                 Site Code       : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                                                 Start Date      : 9/14/2011
Traffic Control: Two Way Stop                                                                                                  Page No         :4



                       East Main Street (Route 28)                               East Spring Street                       East Main Street (Route 28)                       West Spring Street
                                Southbound                                          Westbound                                    Northbound                                     Eastbound
     Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total         Left                Thru Right Peds         App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total           Left       Thru Right Peds               App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
      04:45 PM       15     102        2       0      119    64                     5       6       0         75           0     90     116         0    206        0           2              2      2          6         406
      05:00 PM       27     112        0       0      139    74                     3     10        3         90           2    103     117         0    222        1           3              0      0          4         455
      05:15 PM       15     109        2       0      126    63                     2       6       0         71           0     76     117         0    193        1           0              3      0          4         394
      05:30 PM       14      98        0       0      112    65                     4       7       0         76           3     79     136         0    218        1           4              1      1          7         413
 Total Volume        71     421        4       0      496  266                    14      29        3        312           5    348     486         0    839        3           9              6      3         21        1668
  % App. Total 14.3 84.9             0.8       0           85.3                   4.5     9.3       1                    0.6   41.5    57.9         0            14.3        42.9           28.6   14.3
            PHF .657 .940 .500 .000                  .892 .899                  .700    .725     .250       .867       .417    .845    .893      .000    .945    .750        .563           .500   .375       .750         .916
 FHWA Class 1-3      71     413        4       0      488  262                    14      28        2        306           5    337     465         0     807       3           7              6      0         16        1617
 % FHWA Class 1-3   100 98.1        100        0     98.4 98.5                   100    96.6     66.7       98.1        100    96.8    95.7         0    96.2     100        77.8            100      0       76.2        96.9
  FHWA Class 4        0        1       0       0         1    0                     0       0       1           1          0       2       0        0        2      0           0              0      1          1             5
 % FHWA Class 4       0      0.2       0       0       0.2    0                     0       0    33.3         0.3          0     0.6       0        0      0.2      0           0              0   33.3        4.8           0.3
 FHWA Class 5-13      0        7       0       0         7    4                     0       1       0           5          0       9     21         0      30       0           2              0      2          4           46
  % FHWA Class 5-13   0      1.7       0       0       1.4  1.5                     0     3.4       0         1.6          0     2.6     4.3        0      3.6      0        22.2              0   66.7       19.0           2.8

                                                                                                 East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                                  Out        In      Total
                                                                                                   368        488      856
                                                                                                      2         1         3
                                                                                                    10          7       17
                                                                                                   380        496      876


                                                                                                    4  413             71    0
                                                                                                    0     1              0   0
                                                                                                    0     7              0   0
                                                                                                    4  421             71    0
                                                                                                Right Thru           Left Peds




                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                        39


                                                        44
                                                         1
                                                         4



                                                                 3
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                 3




                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                                     Total




                                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                    29


                                                                                                                                                    28


                                                                                                                                                                  566


                                                                                                                                                                  543
                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                    West Spring Street




                                                                                                                                                                   23



                                                                                                                                                                   East Spring Street
                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                           North
                                                                            7
                                                                            0
                                                                            2
                                                                            9
                                                             Peds Right Thru
                                               16


                                               21
                                                1
                                                4




                                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                         14


                                                                                                                                                         14
                                             In




                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                                           312


                                                                                                                                                                           306




                                                                                                FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                      6
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                                      6




                                                                                                                                                 Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                  266


                                                                                                                                                  262




                                                                                                FHWA Class 4
                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                     23


                                     23
                                       0
                                       0




                                                                                                FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                                0
                                                                1
                                                                2
                                                                3




                                                                                                                                                                                      878


                                                                                                                                                                                      849
                                                                                                                                                                                       28
                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                         2




                                                                                                 Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                     5 337   465    0
                                                                                                     0    2    0    0
                                                                                                     0    9   21    0
                                                                                                     5 348   486    0


                                                                                                   681        807     1488
                                                                                                      1         2         3
                                                                                                    11         30       41
                                                                                                   693        839     1532
                                                                                                  Out        In      Total
                                                                                                 East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                         Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                              70 School Street

                                                                             Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                508-583-1833

                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                        File Name      : East Main Street(Route 28) & East Spring_West Spring_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                         Site Code      : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                         Start Date     : 9/14/2011
Traffic Control: Two Way Stop                                                                          Page No        :1

                                                                          Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                         East Main Street (Route 28)               East Spring Street               East Main Street (Route 28)               West Spring Street
                                 Southbound                            Westbound                            Northbound                             Eastbound
    Start Time       Left Thru Right Peds App. Total       Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total       Left   Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
        Factor        1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0             1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0            1.0     1.0     1.0   1.0             1.0     1.0     1.0   1.0
     07:00 AM           7     42       0      0       49    71       1      8       0      80      3    145      39      0      187      1       0       0     0          1         317
     07:15 AM         13      56       0      0       69    88       8      9       0     105      1    152      54      0      207      0       0       1     1          2         383
     07:30 AM         17      75       0      0       92    80       2      8       1      91      4    183      65      0      252      0       2       0     0          2         437
     07:45 AM         10      59       1      0       70   124       1      8       1     134      1    130      84      0      215      2       2       3     0          7         426
          Total        47    232       1      0      280   363      12     33       2     410      9    610     242      0      861      3       4       4     1         12        1563

     08:00 AM          7     54       0      0       61     78      3       3      0       84      1    154     72        0     227      0      4      0      0           4         376
     08:15 AM          6     57       0      0       63     98      1       4      1      104      1    110     60        0     171      0      2      2      0           4         342
     08:30 AM          7     58       1      0       66     62      2       5      0       69      1    105     68        0     174      0      2      1      0           3         312
     08:45 AM         11     88       0      0       99     79      2       1      0       82      2    105     50        1     158      0      1      0      0           1         340
         Total        31    257       1      0      289    317      8      13      1      339      5    474    250        1     730      0      9      3      0          12        1370

  Grand Total          78   489       2      0      569    680     20      46      3      749    14    1084    492         1   1591       3     13      7      1         24        2933
    Apprch %         13.7   85.9    0.4      0             90.8    2.7    6.1    0.4             0.9    68.1   30.9      0.1           12.5   54.2   29.2    4.2
      Total %         2.7   16.7    0.1      0     19.4    23.2    0.7    1.6    0.1     25.5    0.5      37   16.8        0    54.2    0.1    0.4    0.2      0        0.8
 FHWA Class 1-3        72   472       1      0     545     620     20      41      2     683     13    1050    443         0   1506       3     11      7      0         21        2755
 % FHWA Class 1-3    92.3   96.5    50       0     95.8    91.2   100    89.1   66.7     91.2   92.9    96.9     90        0    94.7   100    84.6   100       0       87.5         93.9
 FHWA Class 4           2      5      1      0        8       0      0      1      0        1      0       3      4        0       7      0      0      0      0          0           16
 % FHWA Class 4       2.6      1    50       0      1.4       0      0    2.2      0      0.1      0     0.3    0.8        0     0.4      0      0      0      0          0           0.5
 FHWA Class 5-13        4     12      0      0       16      60      0      4      1       65      1      31     45        1      78      0      2      0      1          3          162
 % FHWA Class 5-13    5.1    2.5      0      0      2.8     8.8      0    8.7   33.3      8.7    7.1     2.9    9.1     100      4.9      0   15.4      0   100        12.5           5.5
                                                                            Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                 70 School Street

                                                                                Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                   508-583-1833

                                                                                  www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                          File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & East Spring_West Spring_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                           Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                           Start Date   : 9/14/2011
Traffic Control: Two Way Stop                                                                            Page No      :2

                                                                                East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                 Out        In      Total
                                                                                 1094        545     1639
                                                                                     4         8        12
                                                                                    35        16        51
                                                                                 1133        569     1702


                                                                                    1  472      72    0
                                                                                    1     5       2   0
                                                                                    0   12        4   0
                                                                                    2  489      78    0
                                                                                Right Thru    Left Peds
                                                    1
                                                    4
                                                   55


                                                   60


                                                        3
                                                        0
                                                        0
                                                        3




                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                Total




                                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                           46


                                                                                                                           41


                                                                                                                                       583


                                                                                                                                       526
                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                            1




                                                                                                                                        51



                                                                                                                                        East Spring Street
                              West Spring Street




                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                          North
                                                                       0
                                                                       2
                                                                     11


                                                                     13
                                                        Peds Right Thru




                                                                                   9/14/2011 07:00 AM
                                          0
                                          3
                                         21


                                         24




                                                                                                                                20


                                                                                                                                20
                                       In




                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                   9/14/2011 08:45 AM




                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                 749


                                                                                                                                                 683
                                                                                                                                                  65
                                                                 7
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                 7




                                                                                                                        Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                         680


                                                                                                                         620
                                                                                   FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                                          60
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                   FHWA Class 4
                                 1
                                 1
                               34


                               36
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                         1332


                                                                                                                                                         1209
                                                                                   FHWA Class 5-13
                                                           0
                                                           0
                                                           1
                                                           1




                                                                                                                                                           116
                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                2




                                                                                 Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                   13 1050     443    0
                                                                                      0     3    4    0
                                                                                      1   31    45    1
                                                                                   14 1084     492    1


                                                                                 1099      1506      2605
                                                                                     5         7        12
                                                                                    72        78      150
                                                                                 1176      1591      2767
                                                                                 Out        In      Total
                                                                                East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                        Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                             70 School Street

                                                                                            Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                               508-583-1833

                                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                                 File Name       : East Main Street(Route 28) & East Spring_West Spring_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                  Site Code       : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                                                  Start Date      : 9/14/2011
Traffic Control: Two Way Stop                                                                                                   Page No         :4



                        East Main Street (Route 28)                              East Spring Street                        East Main Street (Route 28)                       West Spring Street
                                Southbound                                          Westbound                                     Northbound                                     Eastbound
     Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total         Left                Thru Right Peds          App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total           Left       Thru Right Peds                App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
      07:15 AM        13     56        0       0       69    88                     8       9        0       105            1    152      54         0    207        0           0              1       1          2         383
      07:30 AM       17      75        0       0       92    80                     2       8        1        91            4    183      65         0    252        0           2              0       0          2         437
      07:45 AM        10     59        1       0       70  124                      1       8        1       134            1    130      84         0    215        2           2              3       0          7         426
      08:00 AM         7     54        0       0       61    78                     3       3        0        84            1    154      72         0    227        0           4              0       0          4         376
 Total Volume         47    244        1       0      292  370                    14      28         2       414            7    619     275         0    901        2           8              4       1         15        1622
  % App. Total 16.1 83.6             0.3       0           89.4                   3.4     6.8      0.5                    0.8   68.7    30.5         0            13.3        53.3           26.7     6.7
            PHF .691 .813 .250 .000                  .793 .746                  .438    .778     .500        .772       .438    .846    .818      .000    .894    .250        .500           .333   .250        .536         .928
 FHWA Class 1-3       43    240        1       0      284  338                    14      24         2        378           7    605     237         0     849       2           8              4       0         14        1525
 % FHWA Class 1-3   91.5 98.4       100        0     97.3 91.4                   100    85.7      100        91.3        100    97.7    86.2         0    94.2     100         100            100       0       93.3        94.0
  FHWA Class 4         2       0       0       0         2    0                     0       1        0           1          0       2       3        0        5      0           0              0       0          0             8
 % FHWA Class 4      4.3       0       0       0       0.7    0                     0     3.6        0         0.2          0     0.3     1.1        0      0.6      0           0              0       0          0           0.5
 FHWA Class 5-13       2       4       0       0         6   32                     0       3        0         35           0     12      35         0      47       0           0              0       1          1           89
  % FHWA Class 5-13  4.3     1.6       0       0       2.1  8.6                     0   10.7         0         8.5          0     1.9   12.7         0      5.2      0           0              0    100         6.7           5.5

                                                                                                 East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                                  Out        In      Total
                                                                                                   631        284      915
                                                                                                      3         2         5
                                                                                                    15          6       21
                                                                                                   649        292      941


                                                                                                    1  240              43    0
                                                                                                    0     0               2   0
                                                                                                    0     4               2   0
                                                                                                    1  244              47    0
                                                                                                Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                        36


                                                        37
                                                         0
                                                         1



                                                                 2
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                 2




                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                                     Total




                                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                     28


                                                                                                                                                     24


                                                                                                                                                                   330


                                                                                                                                                                   288
                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                      1
                                    West Spring Street




                                                                                                                                                                    37



                                                                                                                                                                    East Spring Street
                                                                                                                                                                      5




                                                                                                           North
                                                                            8
                                                                            0
                                                                            0
                                                                            8
                                                             Peds Right Thru
                                               14


                                               15
                                                0
                                                1




                                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                                                          14


                                                                                                                                                          14
                                             In




                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                                            414


                                                                                                                                                                            378




                                                                                                FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                                                                                              35
                                                                      4
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                                      4




                                                                                                                                                  Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                   370


                                                                                                                                                   338




                                                                                                FHWA Class 4
                                                                                                                                                    32
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                     22


                                     22
                                       0
                                       0




                                                                                                FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                0
                                                                0
                                                                1
                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                       744


                                                                                                                                                                                       666
                                                                                                                                                                                        72
                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          2




                                                                                                 Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                     7 605   237    0
                                                                                                     0    2    3    0
                                                                                                     0  12    35    0
                                                                                                     7 619   275    0


                                                                                                   582        849     1431
                                                                                                      0         5         5
                                                                                                    36         47       83
                                                                                                   618        901     1519
                                                                                                  Out        In      Total
                                                                                                 East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                         Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                              70 School Street

                                                                             Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                508-583-1833

                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                        File Name      : East Main Street(Route 28) & East Spring_West Spring_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                         Site Code      : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                         Start Date     : 9/14/2011
Traffic Control: Two Way Stop                                                                          Page No        :1

                                                                          Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                         East Main Street (Route 28)               East Spring Street               East Main Street (Route 28)               West Spring Street
                                 Southbound                            Westbound                            Northbound                             Eastbound
    Start Time       Left Thru Right Peds App. Total       Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total       Left   Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
        Factor        1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0             1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0            1.0     1.0     1.0   1.0             1.0     1.0     1.0   1.0
     07:00 AM           7     42       0      0       49    71       1      8       0      80      3    145      39      0      187      1       0       0     0          1         317
     07:15 AM         13      56       0      0       69    88       8      9       0     105      1    152      54      0      207      0       0       1     1          2         383
     07:30 AM         17      75       0      0       92    80       2      8       1      91      4    183      65      0      252      0       2       0     0          2         437
     07:45 AM         10      59       1      0       70   124       1      8       1     134      1    130      84      0      215      2       2       3     0          7         426
          Total        47    232       1      0      280   363      12     33       2     410      9    610     242      0      861      3       4       4     1         12        1563

     08:00 AM          7     54       0      0       61     78      3       3      0       84      1    154     72        0     227      0      4      0      0           4         376
     08:15 AM          6     57       0      0       63     98      1       4      1      104      1    110     60        0     171      0      2      2      0           4         342
     08:30 AM          7     58       1      0       66     62      2       5      0       69      1    105     68        0     174      0      2      1      0           3         312
     08:45 AM         11     88       0      0       99     79      2       1      0       82      2    105     50        1     158      0      1      0      0           1         340
         Total        31    257       1      0      289    317      8      13      1      339      5    474    250        1     730      0      9      3      0          12        1370

  Grand Total          78   489       2      0      569    680     20      46      3      749    14    1084    492         1   1591       3     13      7      1         24        2933
    Apprch %         13.7   85.9    0.4      0             90.8    2.7    6.1    0.4             0.9    68.1   30.9      0.1           12.5   54.2   29.2    4.2
      Total %         2.7   16.7    0.1      0     19.4    23.2    0.7    1.6    0.1     25.5    0.5      37   16.8        0    54.2    0.1    0.4    0.2      0        0.8
 FHWA Class 1-3        72   472       1      0     545     620     20      41      2     683     13    1050    443         0   1506       3     11      7      0         21        2755
 % FHWA Class 1-3    92.3   96.5    50       0     95.8    91.2   100    89.1   66.7     91.2   92.9    96.9     90        0    94.7   100    84.6   100       0       87.5         93.9
 FHWA Class 4           2      5      1      0        8       0      0      1      0        1      0       3      4        0       7      0      0      0      0          0           16
 % FHWA Class 4       2.6      1    50       0      1.4       0      0    2.2      0      0.1      0     0.3    0.8        0     0.4      0      0      0      0          0           0.5
 FHWA Class 5-13        4     12      0      0       16      60      0      4      1       65      1      31     45        1      78      0      2      0      1          3          162
 % FHWA Class 5-13    5.1    2.5      0      0      2.8     8.8      0    8.7   33.3      8.7    7.1     2.9    9.1     100      4.9      0   15.4      0   100        12.5           5.5
                                                                            Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                 70 School Street

                                                                                Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                   508-583-1833

                                                                                  www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                          File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & East Spring_West Spring_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                           Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                           Start Date   : 9/14/2011
Traffic Control: Two Way Stop                                                                            Page No      :2

                                                                                East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                 Out        In      Total
                                                                                 1094        545     1639
                                                                                     4         8        12
                                                                                    35        16        51
                                                                                 1133        569     1702


                                                                                    1  472      72    0
                                                                                    1     5       2   0
                                                                                    0   12        4   0
                                                                                    2  489      78    0
                                                                                Right Thru    Left Peds
                                                    1
                                                    4
                                                   55


                                                   60


                                                        3
                                                        0
                                                        0
                                                        3




                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                Total




                                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                           46


                                                                                                                           41


                                                                                                                                       583


                                                                                                                                       526
                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                            1




                                                                                                                                        51



                                                                                                                                        East Spring Street
                              West Spring Street




                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                          North
                                                                       0
                                                                       2
                                                                     11


                                                                     13
                                                        Peds Right Thru




                                                                                   9/14/2011 07:00 AM
                                          0
                                          3
                                         21


                                         24




                                                                                                                                20


                                                                                                                                20
                                       In




                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                   9/14/2011 08:45 AM




                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                 749


                                                                                                                                                 683
                                                                                                                                                  65
                                                                 7
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                 7




                                                                                                                        Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                         680


                                                                                                                         620
                                                                                   FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                                          60
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                   FHWA Class 4
                                 1
                                 1
                               34


                               36
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                         1332


                                                                                                                                                         1209
                                                                                   FHWA Class 5-13
                                                           0
                                                           0
                                                           1
                                                           1




                                                                                                                                                           116
                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                2




                                                                                 Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                   13 1050     443    0
                                                                                      0     3    4    0
                                                                                      1   31    45    1
                                                                                   14 1084     492    1


                                                                                 1099      1506      2605
                                                                                     5         7        12
                                                                                    72        78      150
                                                                                 1176      1591      2767
                                                                                 Out        In      Total
                                                                                East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                        Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                             70 School Street

                                                                                            Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                               508-583-1833

                                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                                 File Name       : East Main Street(Route 28) & East Spring_West Spring_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                  Site Code       : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                                                  Start Date      : 9/14/2011
Traffic Control: Two Way Stop                                                                                                   Page No         :4



                        East Main Street (Route 28)                              East Spring Street                        East Main Street (Route 28)                       West Spring Street
                                Southbound                                          Westbound                                     Northbound                                     Eastbound
     Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total         Left                Thru Right Peds          App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total           Left       Thru Right Peds                App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
      07:15 AM        13     56        0       0       69    88                     8       9        0       105            1    152      54         0    207        0           0              1       1          2         383
      07:30 AM       17      75        0       0       92    80                     2       8        1        91            4    183      65         0    252        0           2              0       0          2         437
      07:45 AM        10     59        1       0       70  124                      1       8        1       134            1    130      84         0    215        2           2              3       0          7         426
      08:00 AM         7     54        0       0       61    78                     3       3        0        84            1    154      72         0    227        0           4              0       0          4         376
 Total Volume         47    244        1       0      292  370                    14      28         2       414            7    619     275         0    901        2           8              4       1         15        1622
  % App. Total 16.1 83.6             0.3       0           89.4                   3.4     6.8      0.5                    0.8   68.7    30.5         0            13.3        53.3           26.7     6.7
            PHF .691 .813 .250 .000                  .793 .746                  .438    .778     .500        .772       .438    .846    .818      .000    .894    .250        .500           .333   .250        .536         .928
 FHWA Class 1-3       43    240        1       0      284  338                    14      24         2        378           7    605     237         0     849       2           8              4       0         14        1525
 % FHWA Class 1-3   91.5 98.4       100        0     97.3 91.4                   100    85.7      100        91.3        100    97.7    86.2         0    94.2     100         100            100       0       93.3        94.0
  FHWA Class 4         2       0       0       0         2    0                     0       1        0           1          0       2       3        0        5      0           0              0       0          0             8
 % FHWA Class 4      4.3       0       0       0       0.7    0                     0     3.6        0         0.2          0     0.3     1.1        0      0.6      0           0              0       0          0           0.5
 FHWA Class 5-13       2       4       0       0         6   32                     0       3        0         35           0     12      35         0      47       0           0              0       1          1           89
  % FHWA Class 5-13  4.3     1.6       0       0       2.1  8.6                     0   10.7         0         8.5          0     1.9   12.7         0      5.2      0           0              0    100         6.7           5.5

                                                                                                 East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                                  Out        In      Total
                                                                                                   631        284      915
                                                                                                      3         2         5
                                                                                                    15          6       21
                                                                                                   649        292      941


                                                                                                    1  240              43    0
                                                                                                    0     0               2   0
                                                                                                    0     4               2   0
                                                                                                    1  244              47    0
                                                                                                Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                        36


                                                        37
                                                         0
                                                         1



                                                                 2
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                 2




                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                                     Total




                                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                     28


                                                                                                                                                     24


                                                                                                                                                                   330


                                                                                                                                                                   288
                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                      1
                                    West Spring Street




                                                                                                                                                                    37



                                                                                                                                                                    East Spring Street
                                                                                                                                                                      5




                                                                                                           North
                                                                            8
                                                                            0
                                                                            0
                                                                            8
                                                             Peds Right Thru
                                               14


                                               15
                                                0
                                                1




                                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                                                          14


                                                                                                                                                          14
                                             In




                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                                            414


                                                                                                                                                                            378




                                                                                                FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                                                                                              35
                                                                      4
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                                      4




                                                                                                                                                  Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                   370


                                                                                                                                                   338




                                                                                                FHWA Class 4
                                                                                                                                                    32
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                     22


                                     22
                                       0
                                       0




                                                                                                FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                0
                                                                0
                                                                1
                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                       744


                                                                                                                                                                                       666
                                                                                                                                                                                        72
                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          2




                                                                                                 Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                     7 605   237    0
                                                                                                     0    2    3    0
                                                                                                     0  12    35    0
                                                                                                     7 619   275    0


                                                                                                   582        849     1431
                                                                                                      0         5         5
                                                                                                    36         47       83
                                                                                                   618        901     1519
                                                                                                  Out        In      Total
                                                                                                 East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                         Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                              70 School Street

                                                                             Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                508-583-1833

                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                         File Name     : East Main Street(Route 28) & East Spring_West Spring_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                          Site Code     : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                          Start Date    : 9/14/2011
Traffic Control: Two Way Stop                                                                           Page No       :1

                                                                          Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                         East Main Street (Route 28)               East Spring Street               East Main Street (Route 28)               West Spring Street
                                 Southbound                            Westbound                            Northbound                             Eastbound
    Start Time       Left Thru Right Peds App. Total       Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total       Left   Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
        Factor        1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0             1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0            1.0     1.0     1.0   1.0             1.0     1.0     1.0   1.0
     04:00 PM         15     100       1      0      116    76       3      8       1      88      2     82      94      0      178      0       4       0     0          4         386
     04:15 PM         17      94       1      0      112    60       6      3       0      69      2     96      99      0      197      1       1       0     0          2         380
     04:30 PM         17     111       3      3      134    51       7      8       0      66      3     91     100      0      194      0       1       0     0          1         395
     04:45 PM         15     102       2      0      119    64       5      6       0      75      0     90     116      0      206      0       2       2     2          6         406
          Total        64    407       7      3      481   251      21     25       1     298      7    359     409      0      775      1       8       2     2         13        1567

     05:00 PM         27    112       0      0      139     74      3      10      3       90      2    103    117        0     222      1      3      0      0           4         455
     05:15 PM         15    109       2      0      126     63      2       6      0       71      0     76    117        0     193      1      0      3      0           4         394
     05:30 PM         14     98       0      0      112     65      4       7      0       76      3     79    136        0     218      1      4      1      1           7         413
     05:45 PM          6     92       0      0       98     66      6       8      0       80      1     69    106        0     176      1      4      2      1           8         362
         Total        62    411       2      0      475    268     15      31      3      317      6    327    476        0     809      4     11      6      2          23        1624

  Grand Total        126    818       9       3     956    519     36      56      4      615     13    686    885        0    1584       5     19      8      4         36        3191
    Apprch %         13.2   85.6    0.9     0.3            84.4    5.9    9.1    0.7              0.8   43.3   55.9       0            13.9   52.8   22.2   11.1
      Total %         3.9   25.6    0.3     0.1      30    16.3    1.1    1.8    0.1     19.3     0.4   21.5   27.7       0     49.6    0.2    0.6    0.3    0.1        1.1
 FHWA Class 1-3      126    800       9       0    935     504     36      54      2     596      13    659    845        0    1517       5     17      8      0         30        3078
 % FHWA Class 1-3    100    97.8   100        0    97.8    97.1   100    96.4    50      96.9    100    96.1   95.5       0     95.8   100    89.5   100       0       83.3         96.5
 FHWA Class 4           0      4      0       0       4       0      0      0      2        2       0      6      1       0        7      0      0      0      2          2           15
 % FHWA Class 4         0    0.5      0       0     0.4       0      0      0    50       0.3       0    0.9    0.1       0      0.4      0      0      0    50         5.6          0.5
 FHWA Class 5-13        0     14      0       3      17      15      0      2      0       17       0     21     39       0       60      0      2      0      2          4           98
 % FHWA Class 5-13      0    1.7      0    100      1.8     2.9      0    3.6      0      2.8       0    3.1    4.4       0      3.8      0   10.5      0    50        11.1          3.1
                                                                            Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                 70 School Street

                                                                                Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                   508-583-1833

                                                                                  www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                          File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & East Spring_West Spring_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                           Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                           Start Date   : 9/14/2011
Traffic Control: Two Way Stop                                                                            Page No      :2

                                                                                East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                 Out        In      Total
                                                                                  718        935     1653
                                                                                     6         4        10
                                                                                    23        17        40
                                                                                  747        956     1703


                                                                                    9  800     126    0
                                                                                    0     4       0   0
                                                                                    0   14        0   3
                                                                                    9  818     126    3
                                                                                Right Thru    Left Peds
                                                    2
                                                    4
                                                   88


                                                   94


                                                        5
                                                        0
                                                        0
                                                        5




                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                Total




                                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                      1030



                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                           56


                                                                                                                           54




                                                                                                                                       988
                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                        41



                                                                                                                                        East Spring Street
                              West Spring Street




                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                          North
                                                                       0
                                                                       2
                                                                     17


                                                                     19
                                                        Peds Right Thru




                                                                                   9/14/2011 04:00 PM
                                          2
                                          4
                                         30


                                         36




                                                                                                                                36


                                                                                                                                36
                                       In




                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                   9/14/2011 05:45 PM




                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                 615


                                                                                                                                                 596
                                                                                                                                                  17
                                                                 8
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                 8




                                                                                                                        Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                         519


                                                                                                                         504
                                                                                   FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                                          15
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                   FHWA Class 4
                                 0
                                 0
                               58


                               58
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                         1645


                                                                                                                                                         1584
                                                                                   FHWA Class 5-13
                                                           0
                                                           2
                                                           2
                                                           4




                                                                                                                                                            58
                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                2




                                                                                 Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                   13    659   845    0
                                                                                      0     6    1    0
                                                                                      0   21    39    0
                                                                                   13    686   885    0


                                                                                 1312      1517      2829
                                                                                     4         7        11
                                                                                    29        60        89
                                                                                 1345      1584      2929
                                                                                 Out        In      Total
                                                                                East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                        Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                             70 School Street

                                                                                            Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                               508-583-1833

                                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                                File Name       : East Main Street(Route 28) & East Spring_West Spring_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                 Site Code       : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                                                 Start Date      : 9/14/2011
Traffic Control: Two Way Stop                                                                                                  Page No         :4



                       East Main Street (Route 28)                               East Spring Street                       East Main Street (Route 28)                       West Spring Street
                                Southbound                                          Westbound                                    Northbound                                     Eastbound
     Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total         Left                Thru Right Peds         App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total           Left       Thru Right Peds               App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
      04:45 PM       15     102        2       0      119    64                     5       6       0         75           0     90     116         0    206        0           2              2      2          6         406
      05:00 PM       27     112        0       0      139    74                     3     10        3         90           2    103     117         0    222        1           3              0      0          4         455
      05:15 PM       15     109        2       0      126    63                     2       6       0         71           0     76     117         0    193        1           0              3      0          4         394
      05:30 PM       14      98        0       0      112    65                     4       7       0         76           3     79     136         0    218        1           4              1      1          7         413
 Total Volume        71     421        4       0      496  266                    14      29        3        312           5    348     486         0    839        3           9              6      3         21        1668
  % App. Total 14.3 84.9             0.8       0           85.3                   4.5     9.3       1                    0.6   41.5    57.9         0            14.3        42.9           28.6   14.3
            PHF .657 .940 .500 .000                  .892 .899                  .700    .725     .250       .867       .417    .845    .893      .000    .945    .750        .563           .500   .375       .750         .916
 FHWA Class 1-3      71     413        4       0      488  262                    14      28        2        306           5    337     465         0     807       3           7              6      0         16        1617
 % FHWA Class 1-3   100 98.1        100        0     98.4 98.5                   100    96.6     66.7       98.1        100    96.8    95.7         0    96.2     100        77.8            100      0       76.2        96.9
  FHWA Class 4        0        1       0       0         1    0                     0       0       1           1          0       2       0        0        2      0           0              0      1          1             5
 % FHWA Class 4       0      0.2       0       0       0.2    0                     0       0    33.3         0.3          0     0.6       0        0      0.2      0           0              0   33.3        4.8           0.3
 FHWA Class 5-13      0        7       0       0         7    4                     0       1       0           5          0       9     21         0      30       0           2              0      2          4           46
  % FHWA Class 5-13   0      1.7       0       0       1.4  1.5                     0     3.4       0         1.6          0     2.6     4.3        0      3.6      0        22.2              0   66.7       19.0           2.8

                                                                                                 East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                                  Out        In      Total
                                                                                                   368        488      856
                                                                                                      2         1         3
                                                                                                    10          7       17
                                                                                                   380        496      876


                                                                                                    4  413             71    0
                                                                                                    0     1              0   0
                                                                                                    0     7              0   0
                                                                                                    4  421             71    0
                                                                                                Right Thru           Left Peds




                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                        39


                                                        44
                                                         1
                                                         4



                                                                 3
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                 3




                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                                     Total




                                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                    29


                                                                                                                                                    28


                                                                                                                                                                  566


                                                                                                                                                                  543
                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                    West Spring Street




                                                                                                                                                                   23



                                                                                                                                                                   East Spring Street
                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                           North
                                                                            7
                                                                            0
                                                                            2
                                                                            9
                                                             Peds Right Thru
                                               16


                                               21
                                                1
                                                4




                                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                         14


                                                                                                                                                         14
                                             In




                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                                           312


                                                                                                                                                                           306




                                                                                                FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                      6
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                                      6




                                                                                                                                                 Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                  266


                                                                                                                                                  262




                                                                                                FHWA Class 4
                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                     23


                                     23
                                       0
                                       0




                                                                                                FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                                0
                                                                1
                                                                2
                                                                3




                                                                                                                                                                                      878


                                                                                                                                                                                      849
                                                                                                                                                                                       28
                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                         2




                                                                                                 Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                     5 337   465    0
                                                                                                     0    2    0    0
                                                                                                     0    9   21    0
                                                                                                     5 348   486    0


                                                                                                   681        807     1488
                                                                                                      1         2         3
                                                                                                    11         30       41
                                                                                                   693        839     1532
                                                                                                  Out        In      Total
                                                                                                 East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                    Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                         70 School Street

                                                                        Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                           508-583-1833

                                                                               www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                         File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & Harrison Boulevard_AM
Weather: Light Rain                                                                                     Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / KM, EA                                                                      Start Date   : 9/22/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                         Page No      :1

                                                                    Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                             East Main Street (Route 28)                     East Main Street (Route 28)                       Harrison Boulevard
                                    Southbound                                      Northbound                                     Eastbound
          Start Time    Thru       Right       Peds    App. Total       Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total       Left     Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
              Factor     1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0       1.0       1.0
           07:00 AM       31          53          0           84          81        117           0          198         58         48         0          106         388
           07:15 AM       58          67          0          125          99        121           0          220         94         54         0          148         493
           07:30 AM       69          71          0          140        109         140           0          249         92         55         0          147         536
           07:45 AM       59          81          0          140        102         123           0          225         86         57         2          145         510
                Total    217        272           0          489        391         501           0          892        330       214          2          546        1927

          08:00 AM        50          73         0           123         103        128          0           231         67        62         1           130         484
          08:15 AM        53          82         0           135          79        108          0           187         78        55         0           133         455
          08:30 AM        63          57         0           120         102         91          0           193         60        46         0           106         419
          08:45 AM        93          56         0           149          72         87          0           159         39        65         0           104         412
              Total      259         268         0           527         356        414          0           770        244       228         1           473        1770

       Grand Total       476          540        0          1016         747         915         0          1662        574       442         3          1019        3697
         Apprch %        46.9        53.1        0                      44.9        55.1         0                     56.3      43.4       0.3
           Total %       12.9        14.6        0          27.5        20.2        24.7         0            45       15.5        12       0.1          27.6
    FHWA Class 1-3       450          498        0           948         664         889         0          1553        523       377         0           900        3401
  % FHWA Class 1-3       94.5        92.2        0          93.3        88.9        97.2         0          93.4       91.1      85.3         0          88.3          92
     FHWA Class 4           7           0        0             7           9           8         0            17          4         2         3             9          33
   % FHWA Class 4         1.5           0        0           0.7         1.2         0.9         0             1        0.7       0.5       100           0.9         0.9
   FHWA Class 5-13         19          42        0            61          74          18         0            92         47        63         0           110         263
 % FHWA Class 5-13          4         7.8        0             6         9.9           2         0           5.5        8.2      14.3         0          10.8         7.1
                                                                    Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                         70 School Street

                                                                        Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                           508-583-1833

                                                                          www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                       File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & Harrison Boulevard_AM
Weather: Light Rain                                                                                   Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / KM, EA                                                                    Start Date   : 9/22/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                       Page No      :2

                                                                        East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                         Out        In      Total
                                                                         1412        948     2360
                                                                            12         7        19
                                                                            65        61      126
                                                                         1489      1016      2505


                                                                             498  450    0
                                                                               0     7   0
                                                                              42   19    0
                                                                             540  476    0
                                                                           Right Thru Peds
                                                  18
                                                 226
                                                2062


                                                2306
                                               Total




                                                            4
                                                         47
                                                        523


                                                        574
                                                       Left
                             Harrison Boulevard




                                                                                 North
                                                                          9/22/2011 07:00 AM
                                          9
                                       900

                                       110
                                      1019



                                                                2
                                                               63
                                                              377


                                                              442
                                                       Peds Right
                                       In




                                                                          9/22/2011 08:45 AM

                                                                          FHWA Class 1-3
                                                          0
                                                          3
                                                          0
                                                          3




                                                                          FHWA Class 4
                                9
                             116
                            1162


                            1287
                            Out




                                                                          FHWA Class 5-13




                                                                           Left   Thru Peds
                                                                            664    889    0
                                                                                9     8   0
                                                                             74     18    0
                                                                            747    915    0


                                                                          827      1553      2380
                                                                             9        17        26
                                                                            82        92      174
                                                                          918      1662      2580
                                                                         Out        In      Total
                                                                        East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                             Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                  70 School Street

                                                                                 Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                    508-583-1833

                                                                                     www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                 File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & Harrison Boulevard_AM
Weather: Light Rain                                                                                             Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / KM, EA                                                                              Start Date   : 9/22/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                 Page No      :4



                                     East Main Street (Route 28)                      East Main Street (Route 28)                      Harrison Boulevard
                                            Southbound                                       Northbound                                    Eastbound
           Start Time          Thru        Right       Peds    App. Total        Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total      Left     Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
            07:15 AM             58           67           0          125          99         121         0           220        94        54           0         148         493
            07:30 AM             69           71           0          140         109         140         0           249        92        55           0         147         536
            07:45 AM             59           81           0          140         102         123         0           225        86        57           2         145         510
            08:00 AM             50           73           0          123         103         128         0           231        67        62           1         130         484
        Total Volume            236          292           0          528         413         512         0           925       339       228           3         570        2023
        % App. Total           44.7         55.3           0                     44.6        55.4         0                    59.5        40         0.5
                  PHF          .855         .901        .000         .943        .947        .914      .000          .929      .902      .919       .375         .963         .944
     FHWA Class 1-3             230          267           0          497         371         501         0           872       309       200           0         509        1878
   % FHWA Class 1-3            97.5         91.4           0        94.1         89.8        97.9         0
         94.3      91.2      87.7           0        89.3         92.8
       FHWA Class 4                0            0          0             0           4           5        0
             9         3        0           3            6          15
     % FHWA Class 4                0            0          0             0         1.0         1.0        0            1.0       0.9        0        100           1.1          0.7
    FHWA Class 5-13                6          25           0           31          38            6        0            44        27        28           0          55          130
  % FHWA Class 5-13              2.5          8.6          0           5.9         9.2         1.2        0            4.8       8.0     12.3           0          9.6          6.4

                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                    810        497     1307
                                                                                       8         0         8
                                                                                     33         31       64
                                                                                    851        528     1379


                                                                                       267  230    0
                                                                                         0     0   0
                                                                                        25     6   0
                                                                                       292  236    0
                                                                                     Right Thru Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                      1147


                                                      1275
                                                        10
                                                       118
                                                     Total




                                                              309


                                                              339
                                                               27
                                                                 3
                                    Harrison Boulevard




                                                             Left




                                                                                            North
                                                55
                                                 6
                                               509


                                               570




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                    200


                                                                    228
                                                                     28
                                                                      0


                                                             Peds Right
                                              In




                                                                                 FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                 FHWA Class 4
                                                                0
                                                                3
                                                                0
                                                                3
                                    638


                                    705
                                     63
                                       4




                                                                                 FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                         Left Thru Peds
                                                                                          371  501    0
                                                                                             4    5   0
                                                                                           38     6   0
                                                                                          413  512    0


                                                                                    430        872     1302
                                                                                       0         9         9
                                                                                     34         44       78
                                                                                    464        925     1389
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                     Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                          70 School Street

                                                                         Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                            508-583-1833

                                                                                www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                          File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & Harrison Boulevard_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                           Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / BH, Jcal                                                                     Start Date   : 10/6/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                          Page No      :1

                                                                     Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                              East Main Street (Route 28)                     East Main Street (Route 28)                       Harrison Boulevard
                                     Southbound                                      Northbound                                     Eastbound
          Start Time     Thru       Right       Peds    App. Total       Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total       Left     Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
              Factor      1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0       1.0       1.0
           04:00 PM       104          54          0          158        118           72          0          190         70       114          0          184         532
           04:15 PM       104          52          0          156        113           82          0          195        114         87         3          204         555
           04:30 PM        96          70          0          166          84          85          0          169         98         87         0          185         520
           04:45 PM       134          69          0          203          86          81          0          167         96         90         1          187         557
                Total     438        245           0          683        401         320           0          721        378       378          4          760        2164

           05:00 PM       134           55        0           189          70         91          0           161        111        90         0           201         551
           05:15 PM       131           66        0           197          96         90          0           186        105       110         0           215         598
           05:30 PM       128           55        0           183          77         85          0           162        106        77         1           184         529
           05:45 PM       105           64        0           169          81         91          0           172         94       108         0           202         543
               Total      498          240        0           738         324        357          0           681        416       385         1           802        2221

       Grand Total        936           485       0          1421         725         677         0          1402        794       763          5         1562        4385
         Apprch %         65.9         34.1       0                      51.7        48.3         0                     50.8      48.8        0.3
           Total %        21.3         11.1       0          32.4        16.5        15.4         0            32       18.1      17.4        0.1         35.6
    FHWA Class 1-3        911           467       0          1378         682         649         0          1331        754       726          0         1480        4189
  % FHWA Class 1-3        97.3         96.3       0            97        94.1        95.9         0          94.9         95      95.2          0         94.8        95.5
     FHWA Class 4            0            0       0             0           4           5         0             9          1         0          2            3          12
   % FHWA Class 4            0            0       0             0         0.6         0.7         0           0.6        0.1         0         40          0.2         0.3
   FHWA Class 5-13          25           18       0            43          39          23         0            62         39        37          3           79         184
 % FHWA Class 5-13         2.7          3.7       0             3         5.4         3.4         0           4.4        4.9       4.8         60          5.1         4.2
                                                                     Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                          70 School Street

                                                                         Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                            508-583-1833

                                                                           www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                        File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & Harrison Boulevard_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                         Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / BH, Jcal                                                                   Start Date   : 10/6/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                        Page No      :2

                                                                         East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                          Out        In      Total
                                                                          1403      1378      2781
                                                                              6         0         6
                                                                             62        43      105
                                                                          1471      1421      2892


                                                                              467  911    0
                                                                                0     0   0
                                                                               18   25    0
                                                                              485  936    0
                                                                            Right Thru Peds
                                                    7
                                                  136
                                                 2629


                                                 2772
                                                Total




                                                             1
                                                          39
                                                         754


                                                         794
                                                        Left
                              Harrison Boulevard




                                                                                  North
                                                                           10/6/2011 04:00 PM
                                           3
                                          79
                                       1480


                                       1562



                                                                 0
                                                                37
                                                               726


                                                               763
                                                        Peds Right
                                        In




                                                                           10/6/2011 05:45 PM

                                                                           FHWA Class 1-3
                                                           0
                                                           2
                                                           3
                                                           5




                                                                           FHWA Class 4
                                 4
                               57
                             1149


                             1210
                             Out




                                                                           FHWA Class 5-13




                                                                            Left   Thru Peds
                                                                             682    649    0
                                                                                 4     5   0
                                                                              39     23    0
                                                                             725    677    0


                                                                          1637      1331      2968
                                                                              0         9         9
                                                                             62        62      124
                                                                          1699      1402      3101
                                                                          Out        In      Total
                                                                         East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                             Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                  70 School Street

                                                                                 Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                    508-583-1833

                                                                                     www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                 File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & Harrison Boulevard_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                  Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / BH, Jcal                                                                            Start Date   : 10/6/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                 Page No      :4



                                     East Main Street (Route 28)                      East Main Street (Route 28)                      Harrison Boulevard
                                            Southbound                                       Northbound                                    Eastbound
           Start Time          Thru        Right       Peds    App. Total        Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total      Left     Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
            04:45 PM            134           69           0          203          86          81         0           167        96        90           1         187         557
            05:00 PM            134           55           0          189          70          91         0           161       111        90           0         201         551
            05:15 PM            131           66           0          197          96          90         0           186       105       110           0         215         598
            05:30 PM            128           55           0          183          77          85         0           162       106        77           1         184         529
        Total Volume            527          245           0          772         329         347         0           676       418       367           2         787        2235
        % App. Total           68.3         31.7           0                     48.7        51.3         0                    53.1      46.6         0.3
                  PHF          .983         .888        .000         .951        .857        .953      .000          .909      .941      .834       .500         .915         .934
     FHWA Class 1-3             515          236           0          751         316         339         0           655       398       357           0         755        2161
   % FHWA Class 1-3            97.7         96.3           0        97.3         96.0        97.7         0
         96.9      95.2      97.3           0        95.9         96.7
       FHWA Class 4                0            0          0             0           3           1        0
             4         1         0          2            3            7
     % FHWA Class 4                0            0          0             0         0.9         0.3        0            0.6       0.2         0       100           0.4          0.3
    FHWA Class 5-13              12             9          0           21          10            7        0            17        19        10           0          29           67
  % FHWA Class 5-13              2.3          3.7          0           2.7         3.0         2.0        0            2.5       4.5       2.7          0          3.7          3.0

                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                    737        751     1488
                                                                                       2         0         2
                                                                                     26         21       47
                                                                                    765        772     1537


                                                                                       236  515    0
                                                                                         0     0   0
                                                                                         9   12    0
                                                                                       245  527    0
                                                                                     Right Thru Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                      1307


                                                      1361
                                                        48
                                                         6
                                                     Total




                                                              398


                                                              418
                                                               19
                                                                 1
                                    Harrison Boulevard




                                                             Left




                                                                                            North
                                                29
                                                 3
                                               755


                                               787




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                    357


                                                                    367
                                                                     10
                                                                      0


                                                             Peds Right
                                              In




                                                                                 FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                 FHWA Class 4
                                                                0
                                                                2
                                                                0
                                                                2
                                    552


                                    574
                                     19
                                       3




                                                                                 FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                         Left Thru Peds
                                                                                          316  339    0
                                                                                             3    1   0
                                                                                           10     7   0
                                                                                          329  347    0


                                                                                    872        655     1527
                                                                                       0         4         4
                                                                                     22         17       39
                                                                                    894        676     1570
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                     Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                          70 School Street

                                                                         Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                            508-583-1833

                                                                                www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                      File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & West Main_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                       Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / KM                                                                                       Start Date   : 9/21/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                      Page No      :1

                                                                     Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                              East Main Street (Route 28)                     East Main Street (Route 28)                           West Main Street
                                     Southbound                                      Northbound                                        Eastbound
          Start Time     Thru       Right       Peds    App. Total       Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total         Left      Right     Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
              Factor      1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0         1.0        1.0                        1.0        1.0       1.0
           07:00 AM        48          62          0          110           0        167           0          167           85           0         0          85         362
           07:15 AM        67          84          0          151           2        182           0          184           79           1         1          81         416
           07:30 AM        63          83          0          146           0        196           0          196           83           4         0          87         429
           07:45 AM        46          62          0          108           1        170           0          171           94           0         0          94         373
                Total     224        291           0          515           3        715           0          718          341           5         1         347        1580

           08:00 AM        43         80          0           123           4        170          0           174           88          0         1           89         386
           08:15 AM        50         70          0           120           2        125          0           127           73          0         1           74         321
           08:30 AM        64         58          0           122           4        108          0           112           63          4         1           68         302
           08:45 AM        73         72          0           145           0         77          0            77           77          2         0           79         301
               Total      230        280          0           510          10        480          0           490          301          6         3          310        1310

       Grand Total        454        571          0          1025          13       1195          0          1208          642         11          4         657        2890
         Apprch %         44.3      55.7          0                       1.1       98.9          0                       97.7        1.7        0.6
           Total %        15.7      19.8          0          35.5         0.4       41.3          0          41.8         22.2        0.4        0.1        22.7
    FHWA Class 1-3        442        553          0           995          13       1152          0          1165          621         11          0         632        2792
  % FHWA Class 1-3        97.4      96.8          0          97.1         100       96.4          0          96.4         96.7        100          0        96.2        96.6
     FHWA Class 4            1         9          0            10           0          6          0             6            9          0          1          10          26
   % FHWA Class 4          0.2       1.6          0             1           0        0.5          0           0.5          1.4          0         25         1.5         0.9
   FHWA Class 5-13          11         9          0            20           0         37          0            37           12          0          3          15          72
 % FHWA Class 5-13         2.4       1.6          0             2           0        3.1          0           3.1          1.9          0         75         2.3         2.5
                                                                      Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                           70 School Street

                                                                          Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                             508-583-1833

                                                                            www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                         File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & West Main_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                          Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / KM                                                                          Start Date   : 9/21/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                         Page No      :2

                                                                          East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                           Out        In      Total
                                                                           1773        995     2768
                                                                              15        10        25
                                                                              49        20        69
                                                                           1837      1025      2862


                                                                               553  442    0
                                                                                 9     1   0
                                                                                 9   11    0
                                                                               571  454    0
                                                                             Right Thru Peds
                                                    19
                                                    24
                                                 1198


                                                 1241
                                                 Total




                                                              9
                                                           12
                                                          621


                                                          642
                                                         Left
                                West Main Street




                                                                                   North
                                                                            9/21/2011 07:00 AM
                                          10
                                          15
                                        632


                                        657



                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                 11


                                                                 11
                                                         Peds Right
                                        In




                                                                            9/21/2011 08:45 AM

                                                                            FHWA Class 1-3
                                                            0
                                                            1
                                                            3
                                                            4




                                                                            FHWA Class 4
                                  9
                                  9
                               566


                               584
                              Out




                                                                            FHWA Class 5-13




                                                                             Left   Thru Peds
                                                                               13 1152      0
                                                                                  0     6   0
                                                                                  0   37    0
                                                                               13 1195      0


                                                                            453      1165      1618
                                                                               1         6         7
                                                                              11        37        48
                                                                            465      1208      1673
                                                                           Out        In      Total
                                                                          East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                             Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                  70 School Street

                                                                                 Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                    508-583-1833

                                                                                        www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                              File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & West Main_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                               Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / KM                                                                                               Start Date   : 9/21/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                              Page No      :4



                                     East Main Street (Route 28)                      East Main Street (Route 28)                           West Main Street
                                            Southbound                                       Northbound                                        Eastbound
           Start Time          Thru        Right       Peds    App. Total        Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total         Left      Right     Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
            07:15 AM             67           84           0          151           2         182         0           184           79            1         1          81         416
            07:30 AM             63           83           0          146           0         196         0           196           83            4         0          87         429
            07:45 AM             46           62           0          108           1         170         0           171           94            0         0          94         373
            08:00 AM             43           80           0          123           4         170         0           174           88            0         1          89         386
        Total Volume            219          309           0          528           7         718         0           725          344            5         2         351        1604
        % App. Total           41.5         58.5           0                        1           99        0                         98          1.4       0.6
                  PHF          .817         .920        .000         .874        .438        .916      .000          .925         .915        .313      .500         .934         .935
     FHWA Class 1-3             214          301           0          515           7         695         0           702          333            5         0         338        1555
   % FHWA Class 1-3            97.7         97.4           0        97.5          100        96.8         0          96.8         96.8         100          0        96.3         96.9
       FHWA Class 4                0            4          0             4          0            2        0              2            6           0         1            7          13
     % FHWA Class 4                0          1.3          0           0.8          0          0.3        0            0.3          1.7           0     50.0           2.0          0.8
    FHWA Class 5-13                5            4          0             9          0          21         0            21             5           0         1            6          36
  % FHWA Class 5-13              2.3          1.3          0           1.7          0          2.9        0            2.9          1.5           0     50.0           1.7          2.2

                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                   1028        515     1543
                                                                                       8         4       12
                                                                                     26          9       35
                                                                                   1062        528     1590


                                                                                          301  214    0
                                                                                            4     0   0
                                                                                            4     5   0
                                                                                          309  219    0
                                                                                        Right Thru Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                         11
                                                         10
                                                       646


                                                       667
                                                      Total




                                                               333


                                                               344
                                                                  6
                                                                  5

                                                              Left
                                     West Main Street




                                                                                            North
                                               7
                                               6
                                             338


                                             351




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                       5
                                                                       0
                                                                       0
                                                                       5
                                                              Peds Right
                                            In




                                                                                 FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                 FHWA Class 4
                                                                 0
                                                                 1
                                                                 1
                                                                 2
                                    308


                                    316
                                       4
                                       4




                                                                                 FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                        Left Thru Peds
                                                                                            7 695    0
                                                                                            0    2   0
                                                                                            0  21    0
                                                                                            7 718    0


                                                                                    219        702      921
                                                                                       0         2         2
                                                                                       5        21       26
                                                                                    224        725      949
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                      Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                           70 School Street

                                                                          Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                             508-583-1833

                                                                                 www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                       File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & West Main_PM
Weather: Rain                                                                                                         Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                                        Start Date   : 9/22/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                       Page No      :1

                                                                      Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                               East Main Street (Route 28)                     East Main Street (Route 28)                           West Main Street
                                      Southbound                                      Northbound                                        Eastbound
          Start Time      Thru       Right       Peds    App. Total       Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total         Left      Right     Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
              Factor       1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0         1.0        1.0                        1.0        1.0       1.0
           04:00 PM        133          99          0          232           1          78          0           79           90          10         0         100         411
           04:15 PM        120        110           0          230           3          93          0           96           85           4         0          89         415
           04:30 PM        114        122           1          237           0          93          0           93           87           8         0          95         425
           04:45 PM        131        107           0          238           1          94          0           95           84           3         0          87         420
                Total      498        438           1          937           5        358           0          363          346          25         0         371        1671

           05:00 PM       130         121          0           251           2         96          0            98           94          7         0          101         450
           05:15 PM       179         136          0           315           1         90          0            91           96          4         0          100         506
           05:30 PM       154         124          0           278           8         92          0           100           88          4         0           92         470
           05:45 PM       124         102          0           226           3         73          0            76           81          4         0           85         387
               Total      587         483          0          1070          14        351          0           365          359         19         0          378        1813

       Grand Total       1085         921          1          2007          19         709         0           728          705         44         0          749        3484
         Apprch %        54.1        45.9          0                       2.6        97.4         0                       94.1        5.9         0
           Total %       31.1        26.4          0          57.6         0.5        20.4         0          20.9         20.2        1.3         0         21.5
    FHWA Class 1-3       1070         896          1          1967          19         685         0          704           687         44         0          731        3402
  % FHWA Class 1-3       98.6        97.3        100            98         100        96.6         0          96.7         97.4        100         0         97.6        97.6
     FHWA Class 4           1           9          0            10           0           5         0             5            6          0         0            6          21
   % FHWA Class 4         0.1           1          0           0.5           0         0.7         0           0.7          0.9          0         0          0.8         0.6
   FHWA Class 5-13         14          16          0            30           0          19         0            19           12          0         0           12          61
 % FHWA Class 5-13        1.3         1.7          0           1.5           0         2.7         0           2.6          1.7          0         0          1.6         1.8
                                                                      Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                           70 School Street

                                                                          Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                             508-583-1833

                                                                            www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                         File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & West Main_PM
Weather: Rain                                                                                           Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                          Start Date   : 9/22/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                         Page No      :2

                                                                          East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                           Out        In      Total
                                                                           1372      1967      3339
                                                                              11        10        21
                                                                              31        30        61
                                                                           1414      2007      3421


                                                                               896 1070    1
                                                                                 9     1   0
                                                                                16   14    0
                                                                               921 1085    1
                                                                             Right Thru Peds
                                                    15
                                                    28
                                                 1646


                                                 1689
                                                 Total




                                                              6
                                                           12
                                                          687


                                                          705
                                                         Left
                                West Main Street




                                                                                   North
                                                                            9/22/2011 04:00 PM
                                           6
                                          12
                                        731


                                        749



                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                 44


                                                                 44
                                                         Peds Right
                                        In




                                                                            9/22/2011 05:45 PM

                                                                            FHWA Class 1-3
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0




                                                                            FHWA Class 4
                                  9
                                16
                               915


                               940
                              Out




                                                                            FHWA Class 5-13




                                                                             Left   Thru Peds
                                                                               19    685    0
                                                                                  0     5   0
                                                                                  0   19    0
                                                                               19    709    0


                                                                           1114        704     1818
                                                                               1         5         6
                                                                              14        19        33
                                                                           1129        728     1857
                                                                           Out        In      Total
                                                                          East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                             Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                  70 School Street

                                                                                 Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                    508-583-1833

                                                                                     www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                              File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & West Main_PM
Weather: Rain                                                                                                                Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                                               Start Date   : 9/22/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                              Page No      :4



                                     East Main Street (Route 28)                      East Main Street (Route 28)                           West Main Street
                                            Southbound                                       Northbound                                        Eastbound
           Start Time          Thru        Right       Peds    App. Total        Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total         Left      Right     Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
            04:45 PM            131          107           0          238            1           94       0            95           84            3        0          87         420
            05:00 PM            130          121           0          251            2          96        0            98           94            7        0         101         450
            05:15 PM            179          136           0          315            1           90       0            91           96            4        0         100         506
            05:30 PM            154          124           0          278            8           92       0           100           88            4        0          92         470
        Total Volume            594          488           0        1082           12          372        0           384          362          18         0         380        1846
        % App. Total           54.9         45.1           0                       3.1        96.9        0                       95.3          4.7        0
                  PHF          .830         .897        .000         .859        .375         .969     .000          .960         .943        .643      .000        .941         .912
     FHWA Class 1-3             587          474           0        1061           12          360        0           372          354          18         0         372        1805
   % FHWA Class 1-3            98.8         97.1           0         98.1         100         96.8        0          96.9         97.8         100         0        97.9         97.8
       FHWA Class 4                1            5          0             6           0            1       0              1            1           0        0            1            8
     % FHWA Class 4              0.2          1.0          0           0.6           0          0.3       0            0.3          0.3           0        0          0.3          0.4
    FHWA Class 5-13                6            9          0           15            0          11        0            11             7           0        0            7          33
  % FHWA Class 5-13              1.0          1.8          0           1.4           0          3.0       0            2.9          1.9           0        0          1.8          1.8

                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                    714      1061      1775
                                                                                       2         6         8
                                                                                     18         15       33
                                                                                    734      1082      1816


                                                                                           474  587    0
                                                                                             5     1   0
                                                                                             9     6   0
                                                                                           488  594    0
                                                                                         Right Thru Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                       858


                                                       880
                                                         16
                                                          6
                                                      Total




                                                               354


                                                               362
                                                                  1
                                                                  7

                                                              Left
                                     West Main Street




                                                                                            North
                                             372


                                             380
                                               1
                                               7




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                      18


                                                                      18
                                                                       0
                                                                       0

                                                              Peds Right
                                            In




                                                                                 FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                 FHWA Class 4
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                    486


                                    500
                                       5
                                       9




                                                                                 FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                         Left Thru Peds
                                                                                           12  360    0
                                                                                             0    1   0
                                                                                             0  11    0
                                                                                           12  372    0


                                                                                    605        372      977
                                                                                       1         1         2
                                                                                       6        11       17
                                                                                    612        384      996
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                               Old Colony Planning Council                                                                 Page 1
                                                                     70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                                  Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #7                                                  (508) 583-1833                                                                    Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                               www.ocpcrpa.org                                                                  Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                            Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                             Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                                           East Main St(28),north of East Spring St



 Start          19-Sep-11             Tue               Wed                Thu               Fri               Sat                Sun             Week Average
 Time          NB         SB      NB        SB      NB        SB     NB          SB    NB          SB    NB          SB     NB          SB        NB       SB
12:00 AM          *         *      24        41      27        44      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        26          42
    01:00         *         *      18        26      20        24      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        19          25
    02:00         *         *      19        19      15        16      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        17          18
    03:00         *         *      15        11      17        13      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        16          12
    04:00         *         *      51        22      47        23      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        49          22
    05:00         *         *    162         37    157         48      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      160           42
    06:00         *         *    436       111     517       104       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      476         108
    07:00         *         *    657       231     710       250       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      684         240
    08:00         *         *    508       230     534       247       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      521         238
    09:00         *         *    327       252     343       278       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      335         265
    10:00         *         *    274       272     314       294       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      294         283
    11:00         *         *    333       305     322       301       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      328         303
12:00 PM          *         *    334       352     398       342       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      366         347
    01:00         *         *    363       329     361       362       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      362         346
    02:00         *         *    385       353     354       371       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      370         362
    03:00         *         *    335       431     349       403       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      342         417
    04:00         *         *    369       407     361       420       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      365         414
    05:00         *         *    352       437     384       462       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      368         450
    06:00         *         *    302       351     329       347       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      316         349
    07:00         *         *    227       245     297       270       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      262         258
    08:00         *         *    194       184     203       194       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      198         189
    09:00         *         *    181       164     150       161       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      166         162
    10:00         *         *      96      100       84      112       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        90        106
    11:00         *         *      47        79      47        93      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        47          86
     Total        0        0    6009      4989    6340      5179      0           0     0           0     0           0      0           0      6177        5084
       Day          0               10998             11519                0                 0                 0                  0                 11261
AM Peak                         07:00     11:00   07:00     11:00                                                                               07:00       11:00
      Vol.                       657       305     710       301                                                                                 684         303
PM Peak                         14:00     17:00   12:00     17:00                                                                               14:00       17:00
      Vol.                       385       437     398       462                                                                                 370         450


 Comb. Total            0                 10998             11519                0                 0                 0                  0                   11261
                                                   Old Colony Planning Council                                                           Page 1
                                                         70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                      Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #7                                      (508) 583-1833                                                              Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                   www.ocpcrpa.org                                                            Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                          Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                           Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                         East Main St(28),north of East Spring St



 Start     20-Sep-11         NB                 SB            Combined      21-Sep-           NB                   SB              Combined
 Time         Tue      A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.    A.M.     P.M.    Wed        A.M.      P.M.       A.M.      P.M.      A.M.     P.M.
   12:00                  7       72        13       84      20      156                  10       98          16       81        26        179
   12:15                  5       91         7       96      12      187                   4       92           9       82        13        174
   12:30                  5       93        16       77      21      170                   9      107          15      102        24        209
   12:45                  7       78         5       95      12      173                   4      101           4       77         8        178
   01:00                  5       83         6       84      11      167                   8       85           5       89        13        174
   01:15                  5       84         6       72      11      156                   6       96           6       98        12        194
   01:30                  4      105         7       88      11      193                   3       88           8       82        11        170
   01:45                  4       91         7       85      11      176                   3       92           5       93         8        185
   02:00                  3       93         4       89       7      182                   3       78           9       86        12        164
   02:15                  3      101         5      101       8      202                   2       74           2      112         4        186
   02:30                  9       99         5       81      14      180                   6       91           4       98        10        189
   02:45                  4       92         5       82       9      174                   4      111           1       75         5        186
   03:00                  4       90         0       97       4      187                   5       83           4       99         9        182
   03:15                  3       83         1       98       4      181                   4       92           2      115         6        207
   03:30                  3       86         4      118       7      204                   5       85           1       92         6        177
   03:45                  5       76         6      118      11      194                   3       89           6       97         9        186
   04:00                  5       84         3      113       8      197                   5       97           3      116         8        213
   04:15                  8       90         7       97      15      187                  11       93           4       91        15        184
   04:30                 24       93         7      102      31      195                  15       90           7      121        22        211
   04:45                 14      102         5       95      19      197                  16       81           9       92        25        173
   05:00                 18       79         6      113      24      192                  15      116           9      107        24        223
   05:15                 37       87         3      118      40      205                  37       81           8      139        45        220
   05:30                 45       96        16       94      61      190                  51       99          15      106        66        205
   05:45                 62       90        12      112      74      202                  54       88          16      110        70        198
   06:00                 70       78        27       86      97      164                  81       81          22       85       103        166
   06:15               102        70        25       70     127      140                100        77          29       93       129        170
   06:30               113        76        23       99     136      175                147        83          24       89       171        172
   06:45               151        78        36       96     187      174                189        88          29       80       218        168
   07:00               139        64        40       72     179      136                166       100          49       89       215        189
   07:15               182        55        59       55     241      110                171        67          66       57       237        124
   07:30               184        55        66       56     250      111                195        72          71       70       266        142
   07:45               152        53        66       62     218      115                178        58          64       54       242        112
   08:00               185        48        44       53     229      101                182        54          51       57       233        111
   08:15                 95       38        54       46     149       84                149        52          48       43       197         95
   08:30               106        54        66       50     172      104                113        45          75       47       188         92
   08:45               122        54        66       35     188       89                  90       52          73       47       163         99
   09:00               111        52        73       43     184       95                  98       41          67       46       165         87
   09:15                 75       52        67       53     142      105                  73       37          80       33       153         70
   09:30                 70       46        53       33     123       79                  80       34          75       43       155         77
   09:45                 71       31        59       35     130       66                  92       38          56       39       148         77
   10:00                 73       26        66       31     139       57                  76       27          83       36       159         63
   10:15                 73       32        72       39     145       71                  76       18          72       33       148         51
   10:30                 65       19        72       13     137       32                  78       21          76       19       154         40
   10:45                 63       19        62       17     125       36                  84       18          63       24       147         42
   11:00                 57       20        78       16     135       36                  88       20          68       27       156         47
   11:15                 99        9        77       26     176       35                  70        5          76       25       146         30
   11:30                 76        8        73       24     149       32                  83       10          89       27       172         37
   11:45               101        10        77       13     178       23                  81       12          68       14       149         26
    Total             2824      3185     1557      3432    4381     6617               3023      3317       1642      3537      4665       6854
 Day Total                 6009               4989             10998                        6340                 5179               11519
 % Total             25.7%    29.0%     14.2%    31.2%                                26.2%    28.8%       14.3%    30.7%

   Peak                 07:15   01:30   11:00     03:15    07:15   04:30              07:15     12:00       11:00     05:00     07:15       05:00
    Vol.                  703     390     305       447      938     789                726       398         301       462       978         846
  P.H.F.                0.950   0.929   0.978     0.947    0.938   0.962              0.931     0.930       0.846     0.831     0.919       0.948
                                                 Old Colony Planning Council                                            Page 1
                                                       70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                    Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #7                                    (508) 583-1833                                               Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                 www.ocpcrpa.org                                             Site Code: 18
                                                                                                         Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                          Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                        East Main St(28),north of East Spring St



   Start                19-Sep-11    20-Sep-11    21-Sep-11   22-Sep-11   23-Sep-11   24-Sep-11      25-Sep-11          Week
   Time                    Mon          Tue         Wed          Thu         Fri         Sat            Sun            Average
     12:00 AM                    *         65           71           *           *           *              *                  68
         01:00                   *         44           44           *           *           *              *                  44
         02:00                   *         38           31           *           *           *              *                  34
         03:00                   *         26           30           *           *           *              *                  28
         04:00                   *         73           70           *           *           *              *                  72
         05:00                   *       199          205            *           *           *              *                 202
         06:00                   *       547          621            *           *           *              *                 584
         07:00                   *       888          960            *           *           *              *                 924
         08:00                   *       738          781            *           *           *              *                 760
         09:00                   *       579          621            *           *           *              *                 600
         10:00                   *       546          608            *           *           *              *                 577
         11:00                   *       638          623            *           *           *              *                 630
     12:00 PM                    *       686          740            *           *           *              *                 713
         01:00                   *       692          723            *           *           *              *                 708
         02:00                   *       738          725            *           *           *              *                 732
         03:00                   *       766          752            *           *           *              *                 759
         04:00                   *       776          781            *           *           *              *                 778
         05:00                   *       789          846            *           *           *              *                 818
         06:00                   *       653          676            *           *           *              *                 664
         07:00                   *       472          567            *           *           *              *                 520
         08:00                   *       378          397            *           *           *              *                 388
         09:00                   *       345          311            *           *           *              *                 328
         10:00                   *       196          196            *           *           *              *                 196
         11:00                   *       126          140            *           *           *              *                 133
          Total                 0      10998        11519            0           0           0              0               11260
    Percentage               0.0%      97.7%       102.3%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0%           0.0%
      AM Peak                           07:00        07:00                                                                   07:00
           Vol.                          888          960                                                                     924

      PM Peak                          17:00        17:00                                                                    17:00
          Vol.                          789          846                                                                      818
                                                               Old Colony Planning Council                                                               Page 1
                                                                     70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U3                                                  Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #6                                                  (508) 583-1833                                                                  Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                               www.ocpcrpa.org                                                                Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                          Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                           Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                                             E Main St (28), south of E Spring St



 Start          19-Sep-11             Tue               Wed                Thu               Fri               Sat               Sun            Week Average
 Time          NB         SB      NB        SB      NB        SB     NB          SB    NB          SB    NB          SB    NB          SB       NB       SB
12:00 AM          *         *      55        62      62        65      *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *       58          64
    01:00         *         *      34        28      31        37      *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *       32          32
    02:00         *         *      34        23      26        25      *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *       30          24
    03:00         *         *      23        16      30        23      *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *       26          20
    04:00         *         *      69        70      70        66      *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *       70          68
    05:00         *         *    220       168      201      172       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     210         170
    06:00         *         *    565       364      606      364       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     586         364
    07:00         *         *    841       535      830      559       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     836         547
    08:00         *         *    720       517      733      556       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     726         536
    09:00         *         *    498       457      498      459       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     498         458
    10:00         *         *    449       421      497      461       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     473         441
    11:00         *         *    488       453      510      468       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     499         460
12:00 PM          *         *    556       511      587      552       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     572         532
    01:00         *         *    562       508      582      529       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     572         518
    02:00         *         *    640       521      593      528       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     616         524
    03:00         *         *    672       584      681      603       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     676         594
    04:00         *         *    751       577      773      609       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     762         593
    05:00         *         *    718       636      788      650       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     753         643
    06:00         *         *    583       508      644      513       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     614         510
    07:00         *         *    422       363      501      442       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     462         402
    08:00         *         *    328       268      343      278       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     336         273
    09:00         *         *    264       206      249      231       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     256         218
    10:00         *         *    174       154      159      157       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     166         156
    11:00         *         *    103       112       93      119       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *       98        116
     Total        0        0    9769      8062    10087     8466      0           0     0           0     0           0     0           0     9927        8263
       Day          0               17831             18553                0                 0                 0                 0                18190
AM Peak                         07:00     07:00   07:00     07:00                                                                             07:00       07:00
      Vol.                       841       535      830      559                                                                               836         547
PM Peak                         16:00     17:00   17:00     17:00                                                                             16:00       17:00
      Vol.                       751       636      788      650                                                                               762         643


 Comb. Total            0                 17831             18553                0                 0                 0                 0                  18190
                                                   Old Colony Planning Council                                                       Page 1
                                                         70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U3                                      Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #6                                      (508) 583-1833                                                          Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                   www.ocpcrpa.org                                                        Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                      Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                       Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                         E Main St (28), south of E Spring St



 Start     20-Sep-11         NB                 SB            Combined      21-Sep-          NB                 SB             Combined
 Time         Tue      A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.    A.M.     P.M.    Wed        A.M.     P.M.     A.M.      P.M.     A.M.     P.M.
   12:00                 20      134        19      125      39      259                  19     149        22      126       41        275
   12:15                 13      141        16      124      29      265                  13     130        16      142       29        272
   12:30                 11      141        19      132      30      273                  16     146        18      143       34        289
   12:45                 11      140         8      130      19      270                  14     162         9      141       23        303
   01:00                 11      129         6      127      17      256                  10     145        12      144       22        289
   01:15                  9      134         5      118      14      252                   7     150         8      134       15        284
   01:30                  7      143         9      132      16      275                   9     128        11      127       20        255
   01:45                  7      156         8      131      15      287                   5     159         6      124       11        283
   02:00                  5      145         7      139      12      284                   5     132        10      125       15        257
   02:15                  6      159         3      134       9      293                   8     147         3      125       11        272
   02:30                 16      166         7      127      23      293                   9     143         8      140       17        283
   02:45                  7      170         6      121      13      291                   4     171         4      138        8        309
   03:00                  7      162         2      133       9      295                   7     149         7      138       14        287
   03:15                  5      156         1      136       6      292                   6     180         3      147        9        327
   03:30                  3      185         5      150       8      335                   8     183         6      159       14        342
   03:45                  8      169         8      165      16      334                   9     169         7      159       16        328
   04:00                 11      180         8      145      19      325                  10     197        10      181       20        378
   04:15                 11      183        21      151      32      334                  16     184        16      131       32        315
   04:30                 26      179        20      144      46      323                  19     199        18      162       37        361
   04:45                 21      209        21      137      42      346                  25     193        22      135       47        328
   05:00                 32      168        27      159      59      327                  29     207        26      164       55        371
   05:15                 55      187        27      174      82      361                  46     195        34      185       80        380
   05:30                 62      181        59      157     121      338                  60     207        57      148      117        355
   05:45                 71      182        55      146     126      328                  66     179        55      153      121        332
   06:00               100       131        79      125     179      256                108      178        70      127      178        305
   06:15               128       160        85      114     213      274                122      167        86      141      208        308
   06:30               142       149        83      131     225      280                168      148        85      121      253        269
   06:45               195       143      117       138     312      281                208      151      123       124      331        275
   07:00               180       128      120        93     300      221                193      138      114       119      307        257
   07:15               207       108      117        87     324      195                215      128      145       118      360        246
   07:30               245        97      145        93     390      190                204      125      138       105      342        230
   07:45               209        89      153        90     362      179                218      110      162       100      380        210
   08:00               233        82      110        93     343      175                230        90     124        82      354        172
   08:15               151        68      149        63     300      131                193        96     135        70      328        166
   08:30               165        85      125        57     290      142                179        82     156        55      335        137
   08:45               171        93      133        55     304      148                131        75     141        71      272        146
   09:00               145        75      126        53     271      128                130        74     122        68      252        142
   09:15               106        70      132        69     238      139                122        57     117        50      239        107
   09:30               125        60        90       44     215      104                122        61     126        57      248        118
   09:45               122        59      109        40     231       99                124        57       94       56      218        113
   10:00               114        60        98       49     212      109                116        54     130        50      246        104
   10:15               103        48      113        53     216      101                121        44     116        47      237         91
   10:30               116        32      108        21     224       53                134        31     115        29      249         60
   10:45               116        34      102        31     218       65                126        30     100        31      226         61
   11:00               104        33      109        31     213       64                129        36     109        33      238         69
   11:15               127        28      104        35     231       63                114        17     112        35      226         52
   11:30               128        17      132        33     260       50                124        17     126        34      250         51
   11:45               129        25      108        13     237       38                143        23     121        17      264         40
    Total             3996      5773     3114      4948    7110    10721               4094     5993     3255      5211     7349      11204
 Day Total                 9769               8062             17831                       10087              8466              18553
 % Total             22.4%    32.4%     17.5%    27.7%                                22.1%    32.3%    17.5%    28.1%

   Peak                 07:15   04:00   07:30     05:00    07:15   04:45              07:15    04:45    07:45     05:00     07:15       04:30
    Vol.                  894     751     557       636     1419   1372                 867      802      577       650     1436        1440
  P.H.F.                0.912   0.898   0.910     0.914    0.910   0.950              0.942    0.969    0.890     0.878     0.945       0.947
                                                 Old Colony Planning Council                                            Page 1
                                                       70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U3                                    Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #6                                    (508) 583-1833                                               Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                 www.ocpcrpa.org                                             Site Code: 18
                                                                                                         Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                          Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                            E Main St (28), south of E Spring St



   Start                19-Sep-11    20-Sep-11    21-Sep-11   22-Sep-11   23-Sep-11   24-Sep-11      25-Sep-11          Week
   Time                    Mon          Tue          Wed         Thu         Fri         Sat            Sun            Average
     12:00 AM                    *        117          127           *           *           *              *                 122
         01:00                   *         62           68           *           *           *              *                  65
         02:00                   *         57           51           *           *           *              *                  54
         03:00                   *         39           53           *           *           *              *                  46
         04:00                   *        139          136           *           *           *              *                 138
         05:00                   *        388          373           *           *           *              *                 380
         06:00                   *        929          970           *           *           *              *                 950
         07:00                   *       1376         1389           *           *           *              *                1382
         08:00                   *       1237         1289           *           *           *              *                1263
         09:00                   *        955          957           *           *           *              *                 956
         10:00                   *        870          958           *           *           *              *                 914
         11:00                   *        941          978           *           *           *              *                 960
     12:00 PM                    *       1067         1139           *           *           *              *                1103
         01:00                   *       1070         1111           *           *           *              *                1090
         02:00                   *       1161         1121           *           *           *              *                1141
         03:00                   *       1256         1284           *           *           *              *                1270
         04:00                   *      1328          1382           *           *           *              *                1355
         05:00                   *      1354          1438           *           *           *              *                1396
         06:00                   *      1091          1157           *           *           *              *                1124
         07:00                   *        785          943           *           *           *              *                 864
         08:00                   *        596          621           *           *           *              *                 608
         09:00                   *        470          480           *           *           *              *                 475
         10:00                   *        328          316           *           *           *              *                 322
         11:00                   *        215          212           *           *           *              *                 214
          Total                 0      17831        18553            0           0           0              0               18192
    Percentage               0.0%      98.0%       102.0%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0%           0.0%
      AM Peak                           07:00        07:00                                                                   07:00
           Vol.                         1376          1389                                                                   1382

      PM Peak                          17:00        17:00                                                                    17:00
          Vol.                          1354         1438                                                                    1396
                                                                Old Colony Planning Council                                                                  Page 1
                                                                      70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                                   Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #14                                                  (508) 583-1833                                                               Station ID: 6239
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                                www.ocpcrpa.org                                                                   Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                              Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                               Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                  East Main St, at Brockton City Line



 Start          19-Sep-11              Tue               Wed                Thu               Fri               Sat                Sun              Week Average
 Time          SB         NB      SB         NB      SB        NB     SB          NB    SB          NB    SB          NB    SB           NB         SB       NB
12:00 AM          *         *       7          7       3         3      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          5           5
    01:00         *         *       1          4       3         1      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          2           2
    02:00         *         *       2          1       5         2      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          4           2
    03:00         *         *       2          1       2         3      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          2           2
    04:00         *         *       3         12       4        14      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          4          13
    05:00         *         *       4         24       9        27      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          6          26
    06:00         *         *      19         61      18        68      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         18          64
    07:00         *         *      30         82      25        73      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         28          78
    08:00         *         *      32         57      33        59      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         32          58
    09:00         *         *      35         52      25        44      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         30          48
    10:00         *         *      31         38      40        43      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         36          40
    11:00         *         *      39         46      39        52      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         39          49
12:00 PM          *         *      37         51      46        45      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         42          48
    01:00         *         *      31         57      51        55      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         41          56
    02:00         *         *      33         56      39        45      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         36          50
    03:00         *         *      40         58      53        53      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         46          56
    04:00         *         *      54         55      46        61      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         50          58
    05:00         *         *      45         40      60        60      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         52          50
    06:00         *         *      41         45      55        62      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         48          54
    07:00         *         *      23         38      40        49      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         32          44
    08:00         *         *      17         23      21        30      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         19          26
    09:00         *         *      23         24      16        25      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         20          24
    10:00         *         *      10         19       8        10      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          9          14
    11:00         *         *       5          8       5         3      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          5           6
     Total        0        0     564        859     646       887      0           0     0           0     0           0     0            0        606         873
       Day          0                1423               1533                0                 0                 0                  0                   1479
AM Peak                         11:00      07:00   10:00     07:00                                                                                11:00       07:00
      Vol.                         39         82      40        73                                                                                   39          78
PM Peak                         16:00      15:00   17:00     18:00                                                                                17:00       16:00
      Vol.                         54         58      60        62                                                                                   52          58


 Comb. Total            0                  1423              1533                 0                 0                 0                   0                   1479
                                                   Old Colony Planning Council                                                       Page 1
                                                         70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                      Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #14                                     (508) 583-1833                                                    Station ID: 6239
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                   www.ocpcrpa.org                                                        Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                      Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                       Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                          East Main St, at Brockton City Line



 Start     20-Sep-11         SB                 NB            Combined     21-Sep-           SB                 NB             Combined
 Time         Tue      A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.    A.M.    P.M.    Wed        A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.     A.M.    P.M.
   12:00                  3         5        2        11      5      16                   2        11        0        15       2         26
   12:15                  1        10        2        17      3      27                   0        13        0         9       0         22
   12:30                  3         7        1        10      4      17                   0        10        1         9       1         19
   12:45                  0        15        2        13      2      28                   1        12        2        12       3         24
   01:00                  0         5        1        11      1      16                   2        16        1        14       3         30
   01:15                  0         8        2        17      2      25                   0        12        0        13       0         25
   01:30                  1         6        0        15      1      21                   1        11        0        16       1         27
   01:45                  0        12        1        14      1      26                   0        12        0        12       0         24
   02:00                  2         9        0        14      2      23                   4         3        0        13       4         16
   02:15                  0        12        1        15      1      27                   0         9        2        13       2         22
   02:30                  0         5        0        12      0      17                   0        19        0        10       0         29
   02:45                  0         7        0        15      0      22                   1         8        0         9       1         17
   03:00                  0         8        0        18      0      26                   0        14        2         9       2         23
   03:15                  0        12        0         9      0      21                   0        14        1         7       1         21
   03:30                  1         8        0        17      1      25                   1        16        0        17       1         33
   03:45                  1        12        1        14      2      26                   1         9        0        20       1         29
   04:00                  1         9        2        12      3      21                   1        11        2        16       3         27
   04:15                  0        15        3        13      3      28                   0        10        4        15       4         25
   04:30                  0        17        3        15      3      32                   0        16        4        17       4         33
   04:45                  2        13        4        15      6      28                   3         9        4        13       7         22
   05:00                  1        13        5         8      6      21                   1        14        4        19       5         33
   05:15                  2        11        7        12      9      23                   3        22       10        12      13         34
   05:30                  1        12        7        10      8      22                   4        14        9        12      13         26
   05:45                  0         9        5        10      5      19                   1        10        4        17       5         27
   06:00                  2        13        9         9     11      22                   2        17        8        18      10         35
   06:15                  5        11       10         9     15      20                   6        12       10        17      16         29
   06:30                  3         8       23        14     26      22                   2        13       22        17      24         30
   06:45                  9         9       19        13     28      22                   8        13       28        10      36         23
   07:00                  7         8       20        15     27      23                   4         7        8        14      12         21
   07:15                  8         6       16         9     24      15                   5        10       24         9      29         19
   07:30                  6         4       21        12     27      16                   5        10       16        13      21         23
   07:45                  9         5       25         2     34        7                 11        13       25        13      36         26
   08:00                  3         2       19         2     22        4                  5        10       20        10      25         20
   08:15                 11         4       16        10     27      14                   7         1       15         6      22          7
   08:30                  9         4        8         8     17      12                   8         7       15         6      23         13
   08:45                  9         7       14         3     23      10                  13         3        9         8      22         11
   09:00                 10         5       13         4     23        9                  7         5       11         7      18         12
   09:15                  5         6       10         8     15      14                   5         2       10         8      15         10
   09:30                  6         8       12         7     18      15                   9         2        7         4      16          6
   09:45                 14         4       17         5     31        9                  4         7       16         6      20         13
   10:00                  9         4       12         6     21      10                  13         5        9         3      22          8
   10:15                  3         3       11         4     14        7                  1         1       15         1      16          2
   10:30                 11         0       10         4     21        4                 16         2       13         3      29          5
   10:45                  8         3        5         5     13        8                 10         0        6         3      16          3
   11:00                  9         0       10         2     19        2                  5         2       14         0      19          2
   11:15                  9         1       15         2     24        3                 13         1        9         1      22          2
   11:30                  9         2       10         2     19        4                 10         1       14         1      24          2
   11:45                 12         2       11         2     23        4                 11         1       15         1      26          2
    Total              205       359      385       474     590     833                206       440      389       498      595        938
 Day Total                  564                859             1423                         646                887              1533
 % Total             14.4%     25.2%    27.1%     33.3%                              13.4%     28.7%    25.4%     32.5%

   Peak                 08:15   04:15   07:00     01:15    07:00   04:00             10:30     05:15    07:15     05:45     07:15       04:30
    Vol.                   39      58      82        60      112     109                44        63       85        69       111         122
  P.H.F.                0.886   0.853   0.820     0.882    0.824   0.852             0.688     0.716    0.759     0.863     0.771       0.897
                                             Old Colony Planning Council                                            Page 1
                                                   70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #14                               (508) 583-1833                                         Station ID: 6239
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                             www.ocpcrpa.org                                             Site Code: 18
                                                                                                     Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                      Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                         East Main St, at Brockton City Line



   Start            19-Sep-11    20-Sep-11    21-Sep-11   22-Sep-11   23-Sep-11   24-Sep-11      25-Sep-11          Week
   Time                Mon          Tue         Wed          Thu         Fri         Sat            Sun            Average
     12:00 AM                *         14            6           *           *           *              *                  10
         01:00               *          5            4           *           *           *              *                   4
         02:00               *          3            7           *           *           *              *                   5
         03:00               *          3            5           *           *           *              *                   4
         04:00               *         15           18           *           *           *              *                  16
         05:00               *         28           36           *           *           *              *                  32
         06:00               *         80           86           *           *           *              *                  83
         07:00               *       112            98           *           *           *              *                 105
         08:00               *         89           92           *           *           *              *                  90
         09:00               *         87           69           *           *           *              *                  78
         10:00               *         69           83           *           *           *              *                  76
         11:00               *         85           91           *           *           *              *                  88
     12:00 PM                *         88           91           *           *           *              *                  90
         01:00               *         88          106           *           *           *              *                  97
         02:00               *         89           84           *           *           *              *                  86
         03:00               *         98          106           *           *           *              *                 102
         04:00               *       109           107           *           *           *              *                 108
         05:00               *         85          120           *           *           *              *                 102
         06:00               *         86          117           *           *           *              *                 102
         07:00               *         61           89           *           *           *              *                  75
         08:00               *         40           51           *           *           *              *                  46
         09:00               *         47           41           *           *           *              *                  44
         10:00               *         29           18           *           *           *              *                  24
         11:00               *         13            8           *           *           *              *                  10
          Total             0       1423          1533           0           0           0              0                1477
    Percentage           0.0%      96.3%       103.8%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0%           0.0%
      AM Peak                       07:00        07:00                                                                   07:00
           Vol.                      112            98                                                                    105

      PM Peak                      16:00        17:00                                                                    16:00
          Vol.                      109          120                                                                      108
                                                                         Old Colony Planning Council                                                                          Page 1
                                                                               70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U3
                                                                             Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #7                                                            508-583-1833
Tube Layout: L6 Basic                                                                                                                                                     Station ID:
                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                                              Date Start: 27-Aug-08
                                                                                                                                                               Date End: 28-Aug-08
                                                                                                                                                 E Main St (28), north of E Spring St


 Start        25-Aug-08             Tue                   Wed                    Thu                 Fri                   Sat                   Sun              Week Average
 Time        NB       SB       NB           SB       NB           SB        NB           SB     NB           SB       NB           SB       NB           SB       NB       SB
  12:00
    AM            *        *        *            *     34           90         48          83        *            *        *            *        *            *      41         86
  01:00           *        *        *            *     22           19         32          29        *            *        *            *        *            *      27         24
  02:00           *        *        *            *     17           23         17          23        *            *        *            *        *            *      17         23
  03:00           *        *        *            *     13           15         21          15        *            *        *            *        *            *      17         15
  04:00           *        *        *            *     26           17         29          11        *            *        *            *        *            *      28         14
  05:00           *        *        *            *    108           33        118          30        *            *        *            *        *            *     113         32
  06:00           *        *        *            *    324           86        302          86        *            *        *            *        *            *     313         86
  07:00           *        *        *            *    494          143        459         134        *            *        *            *        *            *     476        138
  08:00           *        *        *            *    472          211        444         229        *            *        *            *        *            *     458        220
  09:00           *        *        *            *    290          244        301         243        *            *        *            *        *            *     296        244
  10:00           *        *        *            *    273          283        283         264        *            *        *            *        *            *     278        274
  11:00           *        *        *            *    289          297        292         309        *            *        *            *        *            *     290        303
  12:00
    PM            *        *        *            *     319      326            337      344          *            *        *            *        *            *     328      335
  01:00           *        *        *            *     319      310            364      338          *            *        *            *        *            *     342      324
  02:00           *        *        *            *     351      343            347      333          *            *        *            *        *            *     349      338
  03:00           *        *        *            *     360      410            344      411          *            *        *            *        *            *     352      410
  04:00           *        *        *            *     327      447            352      491          *            *        *            *        *            *     340      469
  05:00           *        *        *            *     358      484            391      521          *            *        *            *        *            *     374      502
  06:00           *        *        *            *     308      443            338      497          *            *        *            *        *            *     323      470
  07:00           *        *        *            *     284      367            317      439          *            *        *            *        *            *     300      403
  08:00           *        *        *            *     266      303            245      290          *            *        *            *        *            *     256      296
  09:00           *        *        *            *     206      181            189      196          *            *        *            *        *            *     198      188
  10:00           *        *        *            *     156      162            152      170          *            *        *            *        *            *     154      166
  11:00           *        *        *            *      69      107             81      128          *            *        *            *        *            *      75      118
   Total          0        0        0            0    5685     5344           5803     5614          0            0        0            0        0            0    5745     5478
    Day               0                 0               11029                   11417                    0                     0                     0               11223
AM Peak                                              07:00    11:00          07:00    11:00                                                                       07:00    11:00
    Vol.                                               494      297            459      309                                                                         476      303
PM Peak                                              15:00    17:00          17:00    17:00                                                                       17:00    17:00
    Vol.                                               360      484            391      521                                                                         374      502


   Comb.
                      0                 0                 11029                  11417                   0                     0                     0                11223
    Total
                                                 Old Colony Planning Council                                                    Page 1
                                                       70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U3
                                                     Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #7                                    508-583-1833
Tube Layout: L6 Basic                                                                                                        Station ID:
                                                                                                                          Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                 Date Start: 27-Aug-08
                                                                                                                  Date End: 28-Aug-08
                                                                                                    E Main St (28), north of E Spring St


    Start         25-Aug-08     26-Aug-08     27-Aug-08     28-Aug-08     29-Aug-08     30-Aug-08        31-Aug-08          Week
    Time             Mon           Tue           Wed           Thu           Fri           Sat              Sun            Average
    12:00 AM                *             *           124           131             *             *                  *            128
        01:00               *             *            41            61             *             *                  *             51
        02:00               *             *            40            40             *             *                  *             40
        03:00               *             *            28            36             *             *                  *             32
        04:00               *             *            43            40             *             *                  *             42
        05:00               *             *           141           148             *             *                  *            144
        06:00               *             *           410           388             *             *                  *            399
        07:00               *             *           637           593             *             *                  *            615
        08:00               *             *           683           673             *             *                  *            678
        09:00               *             *           534           544             *             *                  *            539
        10:00               *             *           556           547             *             *                  *            552
        11:00               *             *           586           601             *             *                  *            594
    12:00 PM                *             *           645           681             *             *                  *            663
        01:00               *             *           629           702             *             *                  *            666
        02:00               *             *           694           680             *             *                  *            687
        03:00               *             *           770           755             *             *                  *            762
        04:00               *             *           774           843             *             *                  *            808
        05:00               *             *           842           912             *             *                  *            877
        06:00               *             *           751           835             *             *                  *            793
        07:00               *             *           651           756             *             *                  *            704
        08:00               *             *           569           535             *             *                  *            552
        09:00               *             *           387           385             *             *                  *            386
        10:00               *             *           318           322             *             *                  *            320
        11:00               *             *           176           209             *             *                  *            192
          Total            0             0         11029         11417             0             0                  0           11224
   Percentage           0.0%          0.0%         98.3%        101.7%          0.0%          0.0%               0.0%
     AM Peak                                        08:00         08:00                                                          08:00
           Vol.                                       683           673                                                           678

     PM Peak                                        17:00         17:00                                                          17:00
         Vol.                                        842           912                                                            877
                                                               Old Colony Planning Council                                                                  Page 1
                                                                     70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                                  Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #11                                                 (508) 583-1833                                                                     Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                               www.ocpcrpa.org                                                                   Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                             Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                              Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                     East Spring St, at Holbrook T/L



 Start          19-Sep-11             Tue               Wed                Thu               Fri               Sat               Sun               Week Average
 Time          EB        WB      EB        WB       EB       WB      EB          WB    EB          WB    EB          WB    EB           WB         EB       WB
12:00 AM          *       *       35         26      30        17      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          32          22
    01:00         *       *       19         10      10        16      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          14          13
    02:00         *       *       17          7      10         9      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          14           8
    03:00         *       *       13          6      14        11      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          14           8
    04:00         *       *       21         48      24        46      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          22          47
    05:00         *       *       69       139       60      125       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          64        132
    06:00         *       *     145        260     132       269       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        138         264
    07:00         *       *     240        318     209       362       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        224         340
    08:00         *       *     231        308     251       320       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        241         314
    09:00         *       *     196        242     191       211       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        194         226
    10:00         *       *     198        192     207       203       *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *       202         198
    11:00         *       *     211        197     205       198       *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *       208         198
12:00 PM          *        *    254        211     236       228       *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *       245         220
    01:00         *        *    232        200     247       220       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        240         210
    02:00         *       *     273        222     288       232       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        280         227
    03:00         *       *     391        241     396       264       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        394         252
    04:00         *       *     455        232     478       234       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        466         233
    05:00         *       *     447        257     463       246       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        455         252
    06:00         *       *     330        177     354       206       *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *       342         192
    07:00         *       *     219        131     213       171       *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *       216         151
    08:00         *        *    137        100     157       106       *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *       147         103
    09:00         *        *      88         55    104         77      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          96          66
    10:00         *       *       72         58      77        50      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          74          54
    11:00         *       *       60         41      46        35      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          53          38
     Total        0       0    4353       3678    4402      3856      0           0     0           0     0           0     0            0       4375        3768
       Day          0               8031               8258                0                 0                 0                 0                    8143
AM Peak                        07:00      07:00   08:00     07:00                                                                                08:00       07:00
      Vol.                      240        318     251       362                                                                                  241         340
PM Peak                        16:00      17:00   16:00     15:00                                                                                16:00       15:00
      Vol.                      455        257     478       264                                                                                  466         252


 Comb. Total            0                 8031              8258                 0                 0                 0                   0                   8143
                                                   Old Colony Planning Council                                                          Page 1
                                                         70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                      Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #11                                     (508) 583-1833                                                             Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                   www.ocpcrpa.org                                                           Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                         Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                          Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                                 East Spring St, at Holbrook T/L



 Start     20-Sep-11         EB                WB             Combined      21-Sep-           EB                WB                Combined
 Time         Tue      A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.    A.M.     P.M.    Wed        A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.       A.M.    P.M.
   12:00                 11       75         7       48      18      123                   8       63         3       47         11        110
   12:15                  9       49         9       61      18      110                   6       42         6       59         12        101
   12:30                  8       63         7       56      15      119                   5       57         3       64          8        121
   12:45                  7       67         3       46      10      113                  11       74         5       58         16        132
   01:00                  6       53         2       56       8      109                   1       64         8       52          9        116
   01:15                  7       57         1       44       8      101                   3       54         2       53          5        107
   01:30                  4       56         5       52       9      108                   4       58         4       53          8        111
   01:45                  2       66         2       48       4      114                   2       71         2       62          4        133
   02:00                  4       61         2       58       6      119                   2       55         0       52          2        107
   02:15                  5       64         1       58       6      122                   5       86         2       56          7        142
   02:30                  5       75         3       56       8      131                   3       67         4       62          7        129
   02:45                  3       73         1       50       4      123                   0       80         3       62          3        142
   03:00                  4       82         1       56       5      138                   2       76         4       46          6        122
   03:15                  2       83         1       62       3      145                   2      105         1       68          3        173
   03:30                  1      118         0       66       1      184                   4      102         4       74          8        176
   03:45                  6      108         4       57      10      165                   6      113         2       76          8        189
   04:00                  6      118         6       63      12      181                   6      116         7       69         13        185
   04:15                  6      104        13       64      19      168                   4       97        12       56         16        153
   04:30                  3      113        14       52      17      165                   6      141        15       51         21        192
   04:45                  6      120        15       53      21      173                   8      124        12       58         20        182
   05:00                 16      127        23       72      39      199                  15      111        19       59         34        170
   05:15                 15      107        24       68      39      175                  14      134        24       77         38        211
   05:30                 21       99        43       59      64      158                  13      122        43       61         56        183
   05:45                 17      114        49       58      66      172                  18       96        39       49         57        145
   06:00                 26       75        49       39      75      114                  29      102        50       49         79        151
   06:15                 39       91        62       46     101      137                  34       95        57       59         91        154
   06:30                 37      100        54       40      91      140                  36       96        65       55        101        151
   06:45                 43       64        95       52     138      116                  33       61        97       43        130        104
   07:00                 53       63        73       26     126       89                  40       48        81       42        121         90
   07:15                 51       56        70       35     121       91                  47       63        75       52        122        115
   07:30                 66       54        88       37     154       91                  52       54      108        33        160         87
   07:45                 70       46        87       33     157       79                  70       48        98       44        168         92
   08:00                 61       32        77       32     138       64                  78       47        75       37        153         84
   08:15                 60       33        91       25     151       58                  56       44        95       29        151         73
   08:30                 57       36        63       17     120       53                  73       41        78       18        151         59
   08:45                 53       36        77       26     130       62                  44       25        72       22        116         47
   09:00                 46       25        66       18     112       43                  50       30        60       18        110         48
   09:15                 44       18        67       14     111       32                  48       27        55       23        103         50
   09:30                 50       15        52       16     102       31                  54       25        54       19        108         44
   09:45                 56       30        57        7     113       37                  39       22        42       17         81         39
   10:00                 54       26        47       19     101       45                  54       28        59       18        113         46
   10:15                 53       20        48       15     101       35                  49       24        51       11        100         35
   10:30                 44       11        48       13      92       24                  54       11        48       13        102         24
   10:45                 47       15        49       11      96       26                  50       14        45        8         95         22
   11:00                 51       14        39       15      90       29                  44       17        47        8         91         25
   11:15                 48       18        56       14     104       32                  46       11        50       13         96         24
   11:30                 61       12        64        9     125       21                  52        8        46        9         98         17
   11:45                 51       16        38        3      89       19                  63       10        55        5        118         15
    Total             1395      2958     1753      1925    3148     4883               1343      3059     1787      2069       3130      5128
 Day Total                 4353               3678             8031                         4402               3856                8258
 % Total             17.4%    36.8%     21.8%    24.0%                                16.3%    37.0%     21.6%    25.1%

   Peak                 07:30   04:30   07:30     05:00    07:30   04:30              07:45     04:30    07:30       03:15     07:30       04:30
    Vol.                  257     467     343       257      600     712                277       510      376         287       632         755
  P.H.F.                0.918   0.919   0.942     0.892    0.955   0.894              0.888     0.904    0.870       0.944     0.940       0.895
                                             Old Colony Planning Council                                             Page 1
                                                   70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #11                               (508) 583-1833                                                Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                             www.ocpcrpa.org                                              Site Code: 18
                                                                                                      Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                       Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                              East Spring St, at Holbrook T/L



   Start            19-Sep-11    20-Sep-11    21-Sep-11   22-Sep-11   23-Sep-11   24-Sep-11       25-Sep-11          Week
   Time                Mon          Tue         Wed          Thu         Fri         Sat             Sun            Average
     12:00 AM                *         61           47           *           *           *               *                  54
         01:00               *         29           26           *           *           *               *                  28
         02:00               *         24           19           *           *           *               *                  22
         03:00               *         19           25           *           *           *               *                  22
         04:00               *         69           70           *           *           *               *                  70
         05:00               *       208           185           *           *           *               *                 196
         06:00               *       405           401           *           *           *               *                 403
         07:00               *       558           571           *           *           *               *                 564
         08:00               *       539           571           *           *           *               *                 555
         09:00               *       438           402           *           *           *               *                 420
         10:00               *       390           410           *           *           *               *                 400
         11:00               *       408           403           *           *           *               *                 406
     12:00 PM                *       465           464           *           *           *               *                 464
         01:00               *       432           467           *           *           *               *                 450
         02:00               *       495           520           *           *           *               *                 508
         03:00               *       632           660           *           *           *               *                 646
         04:00               *       687           712           *           *           *               *                 700
         05:00               *       704           709           *           *           *               *                 706
         06:00               *       507           560           *           *           *               *                 534
         07:00               *       350           384           *           *           *               *                 367
         08:00               *       237           263           *           *           *               *                 250
         09:00               *       143           181           *           *           *               *                 162
         10:00               *       130           127           *           *           *               *                 128
         11:00               *       101            81           *           *           *               *                  91
          Total             0       8031          8258           0           0           0               0                8146
    Percentage           0.0%      98.6%       101.4%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0%            0.0%
      AM Peak                       07:00        07:00                                                                    07:00
           Vol.                      558           571                                                                     564

      PM Peak                      17:00        16:00                                                                     17:00
          Vol.                      704          712                                                                       706
                                                                     Old Colony Planning Council                                                                Page 1
                                                                           70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U5
                                                                         Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #15                                                      (508) 583-1833                                                                    Station ID:
Tube Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                                www.ocpcrpa.org                                                                 Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                                 Date Start: 03-Aug-10
                                                                                                                                                  Date End: 04-Aug-10
                                                                                                                                Harrison Blvd, west of East Main St (28)



 Start          02-Aug-10              Tue               Wed                   Thu                 Fri              Sat                Sun              Week Average
 Time          WB         EB       WB        EB      WB        EB         WB         EB    WB            EB    WB         EB      WB         EB         WB       EB
12:00 AM          *         *       52        90      54       110         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *         53         100
    01:00         *         *       40        50      38        42         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *         39          46
    02:00         *         *       29        38      26        37         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *         28          38
    03:00         *         *       31        27      36        31         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *         34          29
    04:00         *         *       89        37      96        41         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *         92          39
    05:00         *         *      260        97     252        85         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        256          91
    06:00         *         *      576      199      524       217         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        550         208
    07:00         *         *      682       372     689       329         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        686         350
    08:00         *         *      596       406     602       369         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        599         388
    09:00         *         *      494       419     512       385         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        503         402
    10:00         *         *      483       387     483       408         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        483         398
    11:00         *         *      514       418     483       431         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        498         424
12:00 PM          *         *      491       457     481       434         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        486         446
    01:00         *         *      510       463     493       434         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        502         448
    02:00         *         *      490       472     511       507         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        500         490
    03:00         *         *      505       572     549       575         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        527         574
    04:00         *         *      499       637     532       654         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        516         646
    05:00         *         *      538       672     519       637         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        528         654
    06:00         *         *      464       570     410       581         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        437         576
    07:00         *         *      366       420     372       425         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        369         422
    08:00         *         *      303       401     311       374         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        307         388
    09:00         *         *      213       244     222       353         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        218         298
    10:00         *         *      153       193     169       231         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        161         212
    11:00         *         *      121       150     116       146         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        118         148
    Total         0        0      8499     7791     8480      7836         0          0     0             0     0          0       0          0        8490        7815
       Day          0                16290             16316                   0                0                   0                  0                  16305
AM Peak                          07:00     09:00   07:00     11:00                                                                                    07:00       11:00
      Vol.                         682       419     689       431                                                                                      686         424
PM Peak                          17:00     17:00   15:00     16:00                                                                                    17:00       17:00
      Vol.                         538       672     549       654                                                                                      528         654


      Comb.
                             0             16290             16316                   0                   0                0                   0                  16305
       Total
                                                    Old Colony Planning Council                                                       Page 1
                                                          70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U5
                                                        Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #15                                      (508) 583-1833                                                          Station ID:
Tube Layout: L6 Basic (2')                               www.ocpcrpa.org                                                        Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                       Date Start: 03-Aug-10
                                                                                                                        Date End: 04-Aug-10
                                                                                                      Harrison Blvd, west of East Main St (28)



Start     03-Aug-10        WB                  EB            Combined     04-Aug-          WB                    EB              Combined
Time         Tue      A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.    A.M.    P.M.    Wed        A.M.      P.M.       A.M.      P.M.      A.M.    P.M.
  12:00                 14      130        19      100      33     230                  18       99          36      102        54        201
  12:15                 13      126        28      117      41     243                  18      109          24      117        42        226
  12:30                 12      107        19      130      31     237                  11      143          21      102        32        245
  12:45                 13      128        24      110      37     238                   7      130          29      113        36        243
  01:00                 11      120        18      119      29     239                   7      131          12       98        19        229
  01:15                 14      124        13      123      27     247                  15      108          12      110        27        218
  01:30                 11      129        10      113      21     242                  11      123          12      122        23        245
  01:45                  4      137         9      108      13     245                   5      131           6      104        11        235
  02:00                  9      120         8      114      17     234                   6      124          12      138        18        262
  02:15                  6      118        10      107      16     225                   5      127           9      125        14        252
  02:30                  8      113        15      127      23     240                   7      132           8      122        15        254
  02:45                  6      139         5      124      11     263                   8      128           8      122        16        250
  03:00                  3      111         8      115      11     226                   7      136           6      129        13        265
  03:15                  5      124        10      162      15     286                   7      154           8      156        15        310
  03:30                  7      144         4      146      11     290                   7      126           8      152        15        278
  03:45                 16      126         5      149      21     275                  15      133           9      138        24        271
  04:00                 13      132         7      165      20     297                  12      138           9      150        21        288
  04:15                 17      113         4      157      21     270                  18      135          10      181        28        316
  04:30                 27      124        11      165      38     289                  29      120           7      168        36        288
  04:45                 32      130        15      150      47     280                  37      139          15      155        52        294
  05:00                 30      128        18      165      48     293                  40      130          16      151        56        281
  05:15                 51      138        21      179      72     317                  48      142          19      166        67        308
  05:30                 68      142        28      161      96     303                  64      121          21      166        85        287
  05:45               111       130        30      167     141     297                100       126          29      154       129        280
  06:00               116       137        33      171     149     308                118       122          31      190       149        312
  06:15               153        93        32      153     185     246                110       109          50      136       160        245
  06:30               151       116        65      122     216     238                157        94          57      133       214        227
  06:45               156       118        69      124     225     242                139        85          79      122       218        207
  07:00               174       114        75       99     249     213                204        84          69      119       273        203
  07:15               164        91        82      108     246     199                163       103          75       98       238        201
  07:30               152        77        93      109     245     186                155       103          94      102       249        205
  07:45               192        84      122       104     314     188                167        82          91      106       258        188
  08:00               170       104      118       100     288     204                173        92          87      102       260        194
  08:15               133        66        89      108     222     174                131        72          92       86       223        158
  08:30               146        70        99      102     245     172                146        74          99      102       245        176
  08:45               147        63      100        91     247     154                152        73          91       84       243        157
  09:00               122        64        94       59     216     123                147        61          94      101       241        162
  09:15               125        48      106        65     231     113                117        60        109        87       226        147
  09:30               129        52        96       59     225     111                130        51          96       91       226        142
  09:45               118        49      123        61     241     110                118        50          86       74       204        124
  10:00               136        37      105        54     241      91                111        34          89       72       200        106
  10:15               116        48        94       63     210     111                128        47          91       52       219         99
  10:30               116        36        86       39     202      75                127        40        117        63       244        103
  10:45               115        32      102        37     217      69                117        48        111        44       228         92
  11:00               133        46        97       42     230      88                127        43          94       42       221         85
  11:15               128        26        90       30     218      56                110        31        109        38       219         69
  11:30               126        26      112        43     238      69                132        22        105        29       237         51
  11:45               127        23      119        35     246      58                114        20        123        37       237         57
   Total             3846      4653     2540      5251    6386    9904               3795      4685       2485      5351      6280     10036
Day Total                 8499               7791            16290                        8480                 7836              16316
% Total     0.0%    23.6%    28.6%     15.6%    32.2%                               23.3%    28.7%       15.2%    32.8%

   Peak               07:00   05:15    09:15     05:15    07:15   05:15             07:00     03:15      10:30     05:15     07:00       05:15
    Vol.                682     547      430       678     1093    1225               689       551        431       676      1018        1187
  P.H.F.              0.888   0.963    0.874     0.947    0.870   0.966             0.844     0.894      0.921     0.889     0.932       0.939
                                             Old Colony Planning Council                                           Page 1
                                                   70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U5
                                                 Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #15                               (508) 583-1833                                              Station ID:
Tube Layout: L6 Basic (2')                        www.ocpcrpa.org                                            Site Code: 18
                                                                                                    Date Start: 03-Aug-10
                                                                                                     Date End: 04-Aug-10
                                                                                   Harrison Blvd, west of East Main St (28)



   Start             02-Aug-10   03-Aug-10   04-Aug-10   05-Aug-10    06-Aug-10   07-Aug-10      08-Aug-10         Week
   Time                 Mon         Tue         Wed         Thu           Fri        Sat            Sun           Average
     12:00 AM                *        142         164           *             *          *              *                153
         01:00               *         90          80           *             *          *              *                 85
         02:00               *         67          63           *             *          *              *                 65
         03:00               *         58          67           *             *          *              *                 62
         04:00               *        126         137           *             *          *              *                132
         05:00               *        357         337           *             *          *              *                347
         06:00               *        775         741           *             *          *              *                758
         07:00               *       1054        1018           *             *          *              *               1036
         08:00               *       1002         971           *             *          *              *                986
         09:00               *        913         897           *             *          *              *                905
         10:00               *        870         891           *             *          *              *                880
         11:00               *        932         914           *             *          *              *                923
     12:00 PM                *        948         915           *             *          *              *                932
         01:00               *        973         927           *             *          *              *                950
         02:00               *        962        1018           *             *          *              *                990
         03:00               *       1077        1124           *             *          *              *               1100
         04:00               *       1136        1186           *             *          *              *               1161
         05:00               *       1210        1156           *             *          *              *               1183
         06:00               *       1034         991           *             *          *              *               1012
         07:00               *        786         797           *             *          *              *                792
         08:00               *        704         685           *             *          *              *                694
         09:00               *        457         575           *             *          *              *                516
         10:00               *        346         400           *             *          *              *                373
         11:00               *        271         262           *             *          *              *                266
         Total               0     16290       16316           0              0          0             0               16301
   Percentage            0.0%      99.9%      100.1%        0.0%         0.0%        0.0%           0.0%
      AM Peak                       07:00       07:00                                                                   07:00
          Vol.                       1054        1018                                                                    1036

      PM Peak                      17:00       16:00                                                                    17:00
          Vol.                      1210        1186                                                                     1183
                                                                     Old Colony Planning Council                                                            Page 1
                                                                           70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U5
                                                                         Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #8                                                       (508) 583-1833                                                                Station ID:
Tube Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                                www.ocpcrpa.org                                                             Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                             Date Start: 03-Aug-10
                                                                                                                                              Date End: 04-Aug-10
                                                                                                                               Harrison Blvd, west of West Main St



 Start           02-Aug-10             Tue               Wed                    Thu                Fri              Sat              Sun           Week Average
 Time           EB        WB       EB        WB      EB        WB         EB          WB   EB            WB   EB          WB   EB          WB      EB       WB
12:00 AM           *       *        93       205      84       190          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *       88         198
    01:00          *       *        54        88      67        95          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *       60          92
    02:00          *       *        47        75      49        81          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *       48          78
    03:00          *       *        65        45      57        54          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *       61          50
    04:00          *       *       138        54     152        61          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      145          58
    05:00          *       *       489       142     468       134          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      478         138
    06:00          *       *       946       311     935       317          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      940         314
    07:00          *       *      1115      551     1093       515          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *     1104         533
    08:00          *       *       874      560      875       556          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      874         558
    09:00          *       *       779      622      785       611          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      782         616
    10:00          *       *       718       574     665       591          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      692         582
    11:00          *       *       715       665     706       667          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      710         666
12:00 PM           *       *       720       698     718       672          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      719         685
    01:00          *       *       751       712     761       764          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      756         738
    02:00          *       *       766       799     788       823          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      777         811
    03:00          *       *       690     1081      795      1013          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      742        1047
    04:00          *       *       660     1119      711      1183          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      686        1151
    05:00          *       *       730     1331      690      1247          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      710        1289
    06:00          *       *       678     1067      612       996          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      645        1032
    07:00          *       *       533      740      577       750          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      555         745
    08:00          *       *       435       621     465       641          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      450         631
    09:00          *       *       326       455     323       648          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      324         552
    10:00          *       *       264       369     289       435          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      276         402
    11:00          *       *       183       309     204       309          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      194         309
    Total          0       0     12769    13193    12869    13353          0           0    0             0    0           0    0           0    12816      13275
       Day           0               25962             26222                    0                0                  0                0               26091
AM Peak                          07:00     11:00   07:00     11:00                                                                               07:00       11:00
      Vol.                        1115       665    1093       667                                                                                1104         666
PM Peak                          14:00     17:00   15:00     17:00                                                                               14:00       17:00
      Vol.                         766     1331      795      1247                                                                                 777        1289


      Comb.
                             0             25962             26222                    0                  0                0                0                 26091
       Total
                                                  Old Colony Planning Council                                                    Page 1
                                                        70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U5
                                                      Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #8                                     (508) 583-1833                                                       Station ID:
Tube Layout: L6 Basic (2')                             www.ocpcrpa.org                                                     Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                  Date Start: 03-Aug-10
                                                                                                                   Date End: 04-Aug-10
                                                                                                    Harrison Blvd, west of West Main St



Start     03-Aug-10        EB                WB            Combined     04-Aug-          EB                WB              Combined
Time         Tue      A.M.     P.M.     A.M.     P.M.    A.M.    P.M.    Wed        A.M.     P.M.     A.M.     P.M.      A.M.    P.M.
  12:00                 24     193        52     149      76     342                  24     166        53     173        77        339
  12:15                 29     181        54     186      83     367                  21     167        48     172        69        339
  12:30                 20     158        49     189      69     347                  26     182        46     162        72        344
  12:45                 20     188        50     174      70     362                  13     203        43     165        56        368
  01:00                 12     167        30     187      42     354                  17     203        23     184        40        387
  01:15                 22     189        23     183      45     372                  17     175        30     200        47        375
  01:30                 11     193        26     174      37     367                  22     186        29     209        51        395
  01:45                  9     202         9     168      18     370                  11     197        13     171        24        368
  02:00                 16     183        15     197      31     380                   9     189        26     192        35        381
  02:15                  9     199        16     195      25     394                  14     209        20     206        34        415
  02:30                 13     178        26     211      39     389                  16     208        15     210        31        418
  02:45                  9     206        18     196      27     402                  10     182        20     215        30        397
  03:00                 12     179        12     241      24     420                   7     187        14     219        21        406
  03:15                 15     161        14     280      29     441                  13     216        15     270        28        486
  03:30                 15     204        11     282      26     486                  18     188        11     251        29        439
  03:45                 23     146         8     278      31     424                  19     204        14     273        33        477
  04:00                 18     167        10     256      28     423                  21     182        12     283        33        465
  04:15                 26     143        11     304      37     447                  28     182        15     322        43        504
  04:30                 38     161        15     249      53     410                  42     172        11     266        53        438
  04:45                 56     189        18     310      74     499                  61     175        23     312        84        487
  05:00                 57     169        22     309      79     478                  70     181        26     303        96        484
  05:15                 95     191        32     350     127     541                  96     175        32     319       128        494
  05:30               135      195        36     316     171     511                125      161        36     313       161        474
  05:45               202      175        52     356     254     531                177      173        40     312       217        485
  06:00               190      175        50     327     240     502                204      175        45     270       249        445
  06:15               235      164        64     306     299     470                192      165        84     253       276        418
  06:30               253      169        84     205     337     374                255      151        86     256       341        407
  06:45               268      170      113      229     381     399                284      121      102      217       386        338
  07:00               307      153      116      187     423     340                303      156      112      183       415        339
  07:15               251      141      125      200     376     341                256      149      107      187       363        336
  07:30               268      127      141      182     409     309                275      140      151      204       426        344
  07:45               289      112      169      171     458     283                259      132      145      176       404        308
  08:00               241      131      158      141     399     272                266      125      128      155       394        280
  08:15               196      103      140      171     336     274                191      107      134      168       325        275
  08:30               213      106      125      162     338     268                197      114      142      172       339        286
  08:45               224        95     137      147     361     242                221      119      152      146       373        265
  09:00               204        86     155      110     359     196                207        94     150      171       357        265
  09:15               192        77     154      104     346     181                199        77     174      170       373        247
  09:30               200        84     139      123     339     207                191        83     125      151       316        234
  09:45               183        79     174      118     357     197                188        69     162      156       350        225
  10:00               197        56     152      113     349     169                148        70     128      117       276        187
  10:15               191        85     130        90    321     175                175        68     134      127       309        195
  10:30               154        60     155        88    309     148                161        74     170      120       331        194
  10:45               176        63     137        78    313     141                181        77     159        71      340        148
  11:00               180        72     152        68    332     140                172        79     144        93      316        172
  11:15               180        41     167        70    347     111                153        56     166        67      319        123
  11:30               167        33     172        89    339     122                204        34     170        86      374        120
  11:45               188        37     174        82    362     119                177        35     187        63      364         98
   Total             6033     6736     3892     9301    9925   16037               5936     6933     3872     9481      9808     16414
Day Total                12769             13193           25962                       12869             13353             26222
% Total     0.0%    23.2%    25.9%    15.0%    35.8%                              22.6%    26.4%    14.8%    36.2%

   Peak               07:00   01:30   11:00    05:15    07:00   05:15             06:45    01:45    11:00     04:45     07:00       04:45
    Vol.               1115     777     665     1349     1666    2085              1118      803      667      1247      1608        1939
  P.H.F.              0.908   0.962   0.955    0.947    0.909   0.963             0.922    0.961    0.892     0.977     0.944       0.981
                                             Old Colony Planning Council                                            Page 1
                                                   70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U5
                                                 Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #8                                (508) 583-1833                                               Station ID:
Tube Layout: L6 Basic (2')                        www.ocpcrpa.org                                             Site Code: 18
                                                                                                     Date Start: 03-Aug-10
                                                                                                      Date End: 04-Aug-10
                                                                                       Harrison Blvd, west of West Main St



   Start             02-Aug-10   03-Aug-10   04-Aug-10   05-Aug-10    06-Aug-10   07-Aug-10      08-Aug-10          Week
   Time                 Mon         Tue         Wed         Thu           Fri        Sat            Sun            Average
     12:00 AM                *        298         274           *             *          *              *                 286
         01:00               *        142         162           *             *          *              *                 152
         02:00               *        122         130           *             *          *              *                 126
         03:00               *        110         111           *             *          *              *                 110
         04:00               *        192         213           *             *          *              *                 202
         05:00               *        631         602           *             *          *              *                 616
         06:00               *       1257        1252           *             *          *              *                1254
         07:00               *       1666        1608           *             *          *              *                1637
         08:00               *       1434        1431           *             *          *              *                1432
         09:00               *       1401        1396           *             *          *              *                1398
         10:00               *       1292        1256           *             *          *              *                1274
         11:00               *       1380        1373           *             *          *              *                1376
     12:00 PM                *       1418        1390           *             *          *              *                1404
         01:00               *       1463        1525           *             *          *              *                1494
         02:00               *       1565        1611           *             *          *              *                1588
         03:00               *       1771        1808           *             *          *              *                1790
         04:00               *       1779        1894           *             *          *              *                1836
         05:00               *       2061        1937           *             *          *              *                1999
         06:00               *       1745        1608           *             *          *              *                1676
         07:00               *       1273        1327           *             *          *              *                1300
         08:00               *       1056        1106           *             *          *              *                1081
         09:00               *        781         971           *             *          *              *                 876
         10:00               *        633         724           *             *          *              *                 678
         11:00               *        492         513           *             *          *              *                 502
         Total               0     25962       26222           0              0          0             0                26087
   Percentage            0.0%      99.5%      100.5%        0.0%         0.0%        0.0%           0.0%
      AM Peak                       07:00       07:00                                                                    07:00
          Vol.                       1666        1608                                                                     1637

      PM Peak                      17:00       17:00                                                                     17:00
          Vol.                      2061        1937                                                                      1999
                                                                              Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                   70 School Street

                                                                                  Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                     508-583-1833

                                                                                       www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                                     File Name        : West Main Street & Harrison Blvd_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                      Site Code        : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (3) / AV                                                                                                      Start Date       : 9/20/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                                     Page No          :1

                                                                               Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                              West Main Street                        Harrison Boulevard                     West Main Street                          Harrison Boulevard
                                 Southbound                                 Westbound                           Northbound                                   Eastbound
    Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total      Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left     Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
        Factor        1.0     1.0     1.0   1.0                1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0              1.0   1.0     1.0   1.0                1.0        1.0     1.0   1.0
     07:00 AM           0     26      38      1         65       3     146       1      1      151    122    68        5     0        195      19        96      50      0        165         576
     07:15 AM           2     36      36      0         74       2     151       1      0      154    112    93        7     0        212      17       132      41      0        190         630
     07:30 AM           2     44      62      0        108       4     188       1      0      193    109    67        6     0        182      32       153      58      0        243         726
     07:45 AM           0     25      36      0         61       7     186       3      0      196     76    73        9     0        158      24       155      62      1        242         657
          Total         4    131     172      1        308      16     671       6      1      694    419   301      27      0        747      92       536     211      1        840        2589

     08:00 AM          3     42      40      0          85       3     154      1      0      158     79     65      2      0         146      24      152     57       0         233         622
     08:15 AM          4     48      38      0          90       7     174      1      0      182     77     56      7      0         140      20      128     51       0         199         611
     08:30 AM          3     36      39      0          78       1     131      0      0      132     53     44      6      0         103      21      122     43       0         186         499
     08:45 AM          2     32      33      0          67       5     148      0      0      153     71     52      3      0         126      11       98     42       0         151         497
         Total        12    158     150      0         320      16     607      2      0      625    280    217     18      0         515      76      500    193       0         769        2229

  Grand Total          16   289    322        1        628       32   1278       8      1   1319    699    518      45      0       1262      168     1036    404       1       1609         4818
    Apprch %          2.5     46   51.3     0.2                 2.4    96.9    0.6    0.1           55.4     41     3.6     0                 10.4     64.4   25.1    0.1
      Total %         0.3      6    6.7       0         13      0.7    26.5    0.2      0    27.4   14.5   10.8     0.9     0        26.2      3.5     21.5    8.4      0        33.4
 FHWA Class 1-3        13   277    303        1       594        25   1153       8      0   1186    675    495      45      0       1215      158      919    388       1       1466         4461
 % FHWA Class 1-3    81.2   95.8   94.1    100        94.6     78.1    90.2   100       0    89.9   96.6   95.6    100      0        96.3       94     88.7     96   100         91.1         92.6
 FHWA Class 4           2      9      2       0         13        7       1      0      0       8      1     12       0     0          13        0        2      0      0           2           36
 % FHWA Class 4      12.5    3.1    0.6       0        2.1     21.9     0.1      0      0     0.6    0.1    2.3       0     0           1        0      0.2      0      0         0.1           0.7
 FHWA Class 5-13        1      3    17        0         21        0    124       0      1    125     23      11       0     0          34       10     115      16      0        141           321
 % FHWA Class 5-13    6.2      1    5.3       0        3.3        0     9.7      0   100      9.5    3.3    2.1       0     0         2.7        6     11.1      4      0         8.8           6.7
                                                                            Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                 70 School Street

                                                                                Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                   508-583-1833

                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                    File Name    : West Main Street & Harrison Blvd_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                     Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (3) / AV                                                                                     Start Date   : 9/20/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                    Page No      :2

                                                                                     West Main Street
                                                                                  Out      In       Total
                                                                                   661      594      1255
                                                                                    12       13        25
                                                                                    21       21        42
                                                                                   694      628      1322


                                                                                  303  277      13    1
                                                                                    2     9       2   0
                                                                                   17     3       1   0
                                                                                  322  289      16    1
                                                                                Right Thru    Left Peds
                                                     6
                                                   305




                                                              0
                                                  3597


                                                  3908




                                                           10
                                                          158


                                                          168




                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                                 Total




                                                         Left




                                                                                                                          1097



                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                           116

                                                                                                                           977

                                                                                                                            Harrison Boulevard
                                                                                                                8 1278
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                8 1153
                               Harrison Boulevard




                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                          North
                                                                        2
                                                                     919

                                                                     115
                                                                404 1036
                                                         Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                   124
                                                                                   9/20/2011 07:00 AM
                                            2
                                         141
                                        1466


                                        1609
                                         In




                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                   9/20/2011 08:45 AM




                                                                                                                                    1319


                                                                                                                                    1186
                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                      125
                                                                  0
                                                                 16
                                                                388




                                                                                                            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                   FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                              32


                                                                                                              25
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                7
                                                                                   FHWA Class 4
                                  4
                               164
                              2131


                              2299
                              Out




                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                             2416


                                                                                                                                             2163
                                                                                   FHWA Class 5-13
                                                            1
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            1




                                                                                                                                               241
                                                                                                                                                12
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                 Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                  675    495    45    0
                                                                                      1   12     0    0
                                                                                   23     11     0    0
                                                                                  699    518    45    0


                                                                                   690     1215      1905
                                                                                    16        13       29
                                                                                    19        34       53
                                                                                   725     1262      1987
                                                                                  Out       In      Total
                                                                                     West Main Street
                                                                                        Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                             70 School Street

                                                                                            Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                               508-583-1833

                                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                                                          File Name         : West Main Street & Harrison Blvd_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                                           Site Code         : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (3) / AV                                                                                                                           Start Date        : 9/20/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                                                          Page No           :4



                             West Main Street                                   Harrison Boulevard                              West Main Street                              Harrison Boulevard
                                Southbound                                          Westbound                                      Northbound                                     Eastbound
     Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total         Left                Thru Right Peds         App. Total     Left    Thru Right Peds        App. Total   Left       Thru Right Peds                App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
      07:15 AM         2     36      36        0       74     2                  151        1       0       154         112      93        7      0       212        17        132             41        0       190          630
      07:30 AM         2     44      62        0      108     4                  188        1       0       193         109      67        6      0       182        32        153             58        0       243          726
      07:45 AM         0     25      36        0       61     7                  186        3       0       196          76      73        9      0       158        24        155             62        1       242          657
      08:00 AM         3     42      40        0       85     3                  154        1       0       158          79      65        2      0       146        24        152             57        0       233          622
 Total Volume          7    147     174        0      328    16                  679        6       0       701         376     298      24       0       698        97        592            218        1       908         2635
  % App. Total       2.1 44.8        53        0            2.3                 96.9      0.9       0                  53.9    42.7      3.4      0                10.7       65.2             24      0.1
            PHF .583 .835 .702 .000                  .759 .571                  .903    .500     .000       .894       .839    .801    .667    .000       .823     .758       .955           .879    .250        .934         .907
 FHWA Class 1-3        7    141     163        0      311    13                  619        6       0        638        369     285      24       0        678       93        533            210        1        837        2464
 % FHWA Class 1-3   100 95.9 93.7              0     94.8 81.3                  91.2     100        0       91.0       98.1    95.6     100       0       97.1     95.9       90.0           96.3     100        92.2         93.5
  FHWA Class 4         0       4       1       0         5    3                     0       0       0           3          0       7       0      0           7        0         0               0       0           0          15
 % FHWA Class 4        0     2.7     0.6       0       1.5 18.8                     0       0       0         0.4          0     2.3       0      0         1.0        0         0               0       0           0          0.6
 FHWA Class 5-13       0       2     10        0       12     0                   60        0       0         60           7       6       0      0         13         4        59               8       0          71         156
  % FHWA Class 5-13    0     1.4     5.7       0       3.7    0                   8.8       0       0         8.6        1.9     2.0       0      0         1.9      4.1      10.0             3.7       0         7.8          5.9

                                                                                                     West Main Street
                                                                                                  Out      In      Total
                                                                                                   384      311       695
                                                                                                      7       5        12
                                                                                                    10       12        22
                                                                                                   401      328       729


                                                                                                  163  141               7   0
                                                                                                    1     4              0   0
                                                                                                   10     2              0   0
                                                                                                  174  147               7   0
                                                                                                Right Thru           Left Peds




                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                      1988


                                                      2137
                                                       148
                                                         1




                                                               93


                                                               97
                                                                 0
                                                                 4




                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                     Total




                                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                                                    623


                                                                                                                                                                    564
                                    Harrison Boulevard




                                                                                                                                                                     Harrison Boulevard
                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   6



                                                                                                                                                                     59
                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                           North
                                                                         533


                                                                         592
                                                                          59
                                                                            0


                                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                      679


                                                                                                                                                      619
                                               837


                                               908
                                                71
                                                 0




                                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                                                       60
                                              In




                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                                                              701


                                                                                                                                                                              638




                                                                                                FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                                                                                               60
                                                                    210


                                                                    218
                                                                      0
                                                                      8




                                                                                                                                               Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                3




                                                                                                FHWA Class 4
                                                                                                                                                 16


                                                                                                                                                 13
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   3
                                   1151


                                   1229
                                     77
                                       1




                                                                                                FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                1
                                                                0
                                                                0
                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                      1324


                                                                                                                                                                                      1202
                                                                                                                                                                                       119
                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                 Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                  369  285    24    0
                                                                                                     0    7    0    0
                                                                                                     7    6    0    0
                                                                                                  376  298    24    0


                                                                                                   364      678     1042
                                                                                                      7       7       14
                                                                                                    10       13       23
                                                                                                   381      698     1079
                                                                                                  Out      In      Total
                                                                                                     West Main Street
                                                                              Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                   70 School Street

                                                                                  Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                     508-583-1833

                                                                                       www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                                     File Name        : West Main Street & Harrison Blvd_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                      Site Code        : 18
Board #/Staff: TDC-8 (1) / Jcal                                                                                                     Start Date       : 9/20/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                                     Page No          :1

                                                                               Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                              West Main Street                        Harrison Boulevard                     West Main Street                          Harrison Boulevard
                                 Southbound                                 Westbound                           Northbound                                   Eastbound
    Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total      Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left     Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
        Factor        1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0                1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0              1.0   1.0     1.0   1.0                1.0        1.0     1.0   1.0
     04:00 PM           9     62      19      0         90       7     150       3      0      160     61    40        7     0        108      18       191     154      0       363          721
     04:15 PM           2     65      18      0         85       7     139       1      0      147     59    48        4     0        111      13       196     137      0       346          689
     04:30 PM           5     63      19      0         87       5     160       2      0      167     64    59        6     0        129      19       220     160      0       399          782
     04:45 PM           3     79      16      0         98       8     130       0      0      138     48    42        7     0         97      14       198     148      0       360          693
          Total       19     269      72      0        360      27     579       6      0      612    232   189      24      0        445      64       805     599      0      1468         2885

     05:00 PM          3     85      18      0         106       5     145      0      0      150     52     55      7      0         114      17      189     154      0        360          730
     05:15 PM          2     77      12      0          91       3     133      4      0      140     54     51      4      0         109      14      206     177      0        397          737
     05:30 PM          6     78      15      0          99       5     111      0      0      116     44     48      6      0          98      11      182     163      1        357          670
     05:45 PM          3     56      14      0          73       4     103      3      1      111     53     52      5      0         110      12      179     129      0        320          614
         Total        14    296      59      0         369      17     492      7      1      517    203    206     22      0         431      54      756     623      1       1434         2751

  Grand Total        33     565    131       0         729       44   1071     13       1   1129    435    395      46      0         876     118     1561    1222      1       2902         5636
    Apprch %         4.5    77.5    18       0                  3.9    94.9    1.2    0.1           49.7   45.1     5.3     0                  4.1     53.8    42.1     0
      Total %        0.6      10    2.3      0        12.9      0.8     19     0.2      0      20    7.7      7     0.8     0        15.5      2.1     27.7    21.7     0        51.5
 FHWA Class 1-3      32     548    124       0        704        40   1029     13       1   1083    427    389      46      0        862      114     1479    1193      0       2786         5435
 % FHWA Class 1-3    97       97   94.7      0        96.6     90.9    96.1   100    100     95.9   98.2   98.5    100      0        98.4     96.6     94.7    97.6     0          96         96.4
 FHWA Class 4          0      10      0      0          10        4       2      0      0       6      0      5       0     0           5        0        4       0     0           4           25
 % FHWA Class 4        0     1.8      0      0         1.4      9.1     0.2      0      0     0.5      0    1.3       0     0         0.6        0      0.3       0     0         0.1           0.4
 FHWA Class 5-13       1       7      7      0          15        0     40       0      0      40      8      1       0     0           9        4       78      29     1        112           176
 % FHWA Class 5-13     3     1.2    5.3      0         2.1        0     3.7      0      0     3.5    1.8    0.3       0     0           1      3.4        5     2.4   100         3.9           3.1
                                                                            Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                 70 School Street

                                                                                Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                   508-583-1833

                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                    File Name    : West Main Street & Harrison Blvd_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                     Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: TDC-8 (1) / Jcal                                                                                    Start Date   : 9/20/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                    Page No      :2

                                                                                     West Main Street
                                                                                  Out      In       Total
                                                                                   516      704      1220
                                                                                      5      10        15
                                                                                      5      15        20
                                                                                   526      729      1255


                                                                                  124  548      32    0
                                                                                    0   10        0   0
                                                                                    7     7       1   0
                                                                                  131  565      33    0
                                                                                Right Thru    Left Peds
                                                     6
                                                   167




                                                              0
                                                              4
                                                  4366


                                                  4539


                                                          114


                                                          118




                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                                 Total




                                                         Left




                                                                                                                          1640


                                                                                                                          1557
                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                               13 1071


                                                                                                               13 1029




                                                                                                                            Harrison Boulevard
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                            79
                               Harrison Boulevard




                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                          North
                                                                        4
                                                                      78
                                                            0 1193 1479


                                                            1 1222 1561
                                                         Peds Right Thru




                                                                                   9/20/2011 04:00 PM
                                            4
                                         112
                                        2786


                                        2902




                                                                                                                    40
                                         In




                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                   9/20/2011 05:45 PM




                                                                                                                                    1129


                                                                                                                                    1083
                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                       40
                                                                  0
                                                                 29




                                                                                                            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                   FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                              44


                                                                                                              40
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                4
                                                                                   FHWA Class 4
                                  2
                                55
                              1580


                              1637
                              Out




                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                             2769


                                                                                                                                             2640
                                                                                   FHWA Class 5-13
                                                            0
                                                            1




                                                                                                                                               119
                                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                 Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                  427    389    46    0
                                                                                      0     5    0    0
                                                                                      8     1    0    0
                                                                                  435    395    46    0


                                                                                  1781      862      2643
                                                                                    14        5        19
                                                                                    36        9        45
                                                                                  1831      876      2707
                                                                                  Out      In       Total
                                                                                     West Main Street
                                                                                       Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                            70 School Street

                                                                                           Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                              508-583-1833

                                                                                                 www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                                                        File Name         : West Main Street & Harrison Blvd_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                                         Site Code         : 18
Board #/Staff: TDC-8 (1) / Jcal                                                                                                                        Start Date        : 9/20/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                                                        Page No           :4



                             West Main Street                                  Harrison Boulevard                             West Main Street                              Harrison Boulevard
                                Southbound                                         Westbound                                     Northbound                                     Eastbound
     Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total        Left                Thru Right Peds        App. Total     Left    Thru Right Peds        App. Total   Left       Thru Right Peds               App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
      04:30 PM         5     63      19        0       87     5                 160       2       0       167          64      59        6      0       129        19        220            160       0       399          782
      04:45 PM         3     79      16        0       98     8                 130       0       0       138          48      42        7      0        97        14        198            148       0       360          693
      05:00 PM         3     85      18        0      106     5                 145       0       0       150          52      55        7      0       114        17        189            154       0       360          730
      05:15 PM         2     77      12        0       91     3                 133       4       0       140          54      51        4      0       109        14        206            177       0       397          737
 Total Volume         13    304      65        0      382   21                  568       6       0       595         218     207      24       0       449        64        813            639       0      1516         2942
  % App. Total       3.4 79.6        17        0            3.5                95.5       1       0                  48.6    46.1      5.3      0                  4.2      53.6           42.2       0
            PHF .650 .894 .855 .000                  .901 .656                 .888    .375    .000       .891       .852    .877    .857    .000       .870     .842       .924           .903    .000       .950         .941
 FHWA Class 1-3       12    296      64        0      372   19                  549       6       0        574        214     203      24       0        441       63        765            623       0      1451         2838
 % FHWA Class 1-3   92.3 97.4 98.5             0     97.4 90.5                 96.7     100       0       96.5       98.2    98.1     100       0       98.2     98.4       94.1           97.5       0       95.7         96.5
  FHWA Class 4         0       3      0        0         3    2                    1      0       0           3          0       3       0      0           3        0          1              0      0          1           10
 % FHWA Class 4        0     1.0      0        0       0.8  9.5                  0.2      0       0         0.5          0     1.4       0      0         0.7        0        0.1              0      0        0.1           0.3
 FHWA Class 5-13       1       5      1        0         7    0                  18       0       0         18           4       1       0      0           5        1        47             16       0         64           94
  % FHWA Class 5-13  7.7     1.6    1.5        0       1.8    0                  3.2      0       0         3.0        1.8     0.5       0      0         1.1      1.6        5.8            2.5      0        4.2           3.2

                                                                                                   West Main Street
                                                                                                Out      In      Total
                                                                                                 272      372       644
                                                                                                    3       3         6
                                                                                                    2       7         9
                                                                                                 277      382       659


                                                                                                 64  296             12    0
                                                                                                  0     3              0   0
                                                                                                  1     5              1   0
                                                                                                 65  304             13    0
                                                                                              Right Thru           Left Peds




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                                     2278


                                                     2367
                                                       87
                                                        2




                                                              63


                                                              64
                                                                0
                                                                1




                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                                    Total




                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                  850


                                                                                                                                                                  801
                                   Harrison Boulevard




                                                                                                                                                                   Harrison Boulevard
                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 6



                                                                                                                                                                   48
                                                                                                                                                                     1




                                                                                                         North
                                                                        765


                                                                        813
                                                                         47
                                                                           1


                                                            Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                    568


                                                                                                                                                    549
                                            1451


                                            1516
                                               64
                                                1




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                     18
                                             In




                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                                            595


                                                                                                                                                                            574




                                                                                              FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                                                                                             18
                                                                   623


                                                                   639
                                                                    16
                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                             Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                              3




                                                                                              FHWA Class 4
                                                                                                                                               21


                                                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 2
                                    23
                                      1
                                   827


                                   851




                                                                                              FHWA Class 5-13
                                  Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                    1445


                                                                                                                                                                                    1375
                                                                                                                                                                                      66
                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                214  203    24    0
                                                                                                   0    3    0    0
                                                                                                   4    1    0    0
                                                                                                218  207    24    0


                                                                                                 938      441     1379
                                                                                                    5       3        8
                                                                                                  21        5       26
                                                                                                 964      449     1413
                                                                                                Out      In      Total
                                                                                                   West Main Street
                                                                        Old Colony Planning Council                                                                           Page 1
                                                                             70 School Street
                                                                            Brockton, MA 02301                                                                         Station ID:
Community: Avon                                                                508-583-1833                                                                         Site Code: 18
Community #_FC: 18_U5                                                                                                                                      Date Start: 07-Aug-07
Recorder #: Jamar #9                                                                                                                                        Date End: 08-Aug-07
Tube Layout: L6 Basic                                                                                                                        West Main St, south of Harrison Blvd
  Start      06-Aug-07              Tue                 Wed                     Thu                   Fri                   Sat                      Sun              Week Average
  Time      NB       SB       NB           SB      NB           SB         NB           SB       NB           SB       NB           SB          NB           SB       NB       SB
   12:00
     AM         *         *     54          147      56          163            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *      55       155
   01:00        *         *     32           61      44           85            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *      38        73
   02:00        *         *     21           35      15           37            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *      18        36
   03:00        *         *     24           23      32           30            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *      28        26
   04:00        *         *     67           29      71           28            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *      69        28
   05:00        *         *    301           63     317           68            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     309        66
   06:00        *         *    615          144     601          137            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     608       140
   07:00        *         *    654          245     685          242            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     670       244
   08:00        *         *    593          265     596          293            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     594       279
   09:00        *         *    378          302     422          343            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     400       322
   10:00        *         *    353          351     361          336            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     357       344
   11:00        *         *    382          346     403          328            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     392       337
   12:00
     PM        *          *    393     420          457     484                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     425     452
   01:00       *          *    365     460          426     500                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     396     480
   02:00       *          *    421     509          453     562                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     437     536
   03:00       *          *    409     731          390     721                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     400     726
   04:00       *          *    387     901          430     892                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     408     896
   05:00       *          *    407     880          346     912                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     376     896
   06:00       *          *    356     764          369     744                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     362     754
   07:00       *          *    369     592          352     546                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     360     569
   08:00       *          *    298     455          286     472                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     292     464
   09:00       *          *    220     394          240     396                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     230     395
   10:00       *          *    189     279          183     320                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     186     300
   11:00       *          *     96     218          125     225                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     110     222
    Total      0          0   7384    8614         7660    8864                 0            0        0            0        0            0           0            0    7520    8740
     Day            0           15998                16524                          0                     0                     0                        0               16260
     AM
                              07:00        10:00   07:00        09:00                                                                                                 07:00      10:00
    Peak
     Vol.                      654          351     685          343                                                                                                    670       344
     PM
                              14:00        16:00   12:00        17:00                                                                                                 14:00      16:00
    Peak
     Vol.                      421          901     457          912                                                                                                    437       896


  Comb.
                    0              15998                16524                       0                     0                     0                        0               16260
   Total
                                                Old Colony Planning Council                                          Page 1
                                                     70 School Street
                                                    Brockton, MA 02301                                            Station ID:
Community: Avon                                        508-583-1833                                            Site Code: 18
Community #_FC: 18_U5                                                                                 Date Start: 07-Aug-07
Recorder #: Jamar #9                                                                                   Date End: 08-Aug-07
Tube Layout: L6 Basic                                                                   West Main St, south of Harrison Blvd
   Start        06-Aug-07     07-Aug-07     08-Aug-07     09-Aug-07     10-Aug-07     11-Aug-07     12-Aug-07      Week
   Time            Mon           Tue          Wed            Thu           Fri           Sat           Sun        Average
   12:00 AM               *           201           219             *             *             *             *          210
       01:00              *            93           129             *             *             *             *          111
       02:00              *            56            52             *             *             *             *           54
       03:00              *            47            62             *             *             *             *           54
       04:00              *            96            99             *             *             *             *           98
       05:00              *           364           385             *             *             *             *          374
       06:00              *           759           738             *             *             *             *          748
       07:00              *           899           927             *             *             *             *          913
       08:00              *           858           889             *             *             *             *          874
       09:00              *           680           765             *             *             *             *          722
       10:00              *           704           697             *             *             *             *          700
       11:00              *           728           731             *             *             *             *          730
   12:00 PM               *           813           941             *             *             *             *          877
       01:00              *           825           926             *             *             *             *          876
       02:00              *           930         1015              *             *             *             *          972
       03:00              *          1140         1111              *             *             *             *        1126
       04:00              *          1288          1322             *             *             *             *         1305
       05:00              *          1287         1258              *             *             *             *        1272
       06:00              *          1120         1113              *             *             *             *        1116
       07:00              *           961           898             *             *             *             *          930
       08:00              *           753           758             *             *             *             *          756
       09:00              *           614           636             *             *             *             *          625
       10:00              *           468           503             *             *             *             *          486
       11:00              *           314           350             *             *             *             *          332
        Total            0         15998         16524             0             0             0             0        16261
  Percentage          0.0%         98.4%        101.6%          0.0%          0.0%          0.0%          0.0%
    AM Peak                         07:00         07:00                                                                07:00
         Vol.                         899           927                                                                 913

    PM Peak                         16:00         16:00                                                                16:00
        Vol.                        1288          1322                                                                 1305
                                                                        Old Colony Planning Council                                                            Page 1
                                                                              70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U0                                                           Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #13                                                          (508) 583-1833                                                               Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                                        www.ocpcrpa.org                                                             Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                                Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                                 Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                       W Spring St, w of E Main St (28)



 Start          19-Sep-11                Tue                   Wed                 Thu               Fri              Sat              Sun             Week Average
 Time          WB         EB     WB             EB      WB            EB      WB         EB    WB          EB    WB         EB    WB         EB       WB        EB
12:00 AM          *         *      2              2       1             0      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         2           1
    01:00         *         *      0              0       0             0      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         0           0
    02:00         *         *      3              0       2             1      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         2           0
    03:00         *         *      1              3       1             0      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         1           2
    04:00         *         *      0              0       1             0      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         0           0
    05:00         *         *      7              6      13             3      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        10           4
    06:00         *         *     17              3      15             8      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        16           6
    07:00         *         *     29             15      21             8      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        25          12
    08:00         *         *     15              9      21            14      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        18          12
    09:00         *         *     22             12      21            12      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        22          12
    10:00         *         *     23              7      28             6      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        26           6
    11:00         *         *     26              6      24            11      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        25           8
12:00 PM          *         *     25             15      38            19      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        32          17
    01:00         *         *     21             14      25             8      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        23          11
    02:00         *         *     29              7      27             7      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        28           7
    03:00         *         *     29             15      29            26      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        29          20
    04:00         *         *     26             10      23            13      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        24          12
    05:00         *         *     28             19      30            10      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        29          14
    06:00         *         *     24              7      36            14      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        30          10
    07:00         *         *     20              9      19            13      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        20          11
    08:00         *         *     11              5      11            14      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        11          10
    09:00         *         *      9              6      10             4      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        10           5
    10:00         *         *      4              2       3             2      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         4           2
    11:00         *         *      7              2       4             0      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         6           1
     Total        0        0     378            174     403           193      0          0     0           0     0          0     0          0       393         183
       Day          0                   552                    596                 0                 0                0                0                   576
AM Peak                         07:00          07:00   10:00         08:00                                                                           10:00       07:00
      Vol.                         29             15      28            14                                                                              26          12
PM Peak                         14:00          17:00   12:00         15:00                                                                           12:00       15:00
      Vol.                         29             19      38            26                                                                              32          20


 Comb. Total            0                       552                   596                0                 0                0                0                   576
                                                   Old Colony Planning Council                                                      Page 1
                                                         70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U0                                      Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #13                                     (508) 583-1833                                                         Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                   www.ocpcrpa.org                                                       Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                     Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                      Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                            W Spring St, w of E Main St (28)



 Start     20-Sep-11         WB                 EB            Combined     21-Sep-           WB                 EB             Combined
 Time         Tue      A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.    A.M.    P.M.    Wed        A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.     A.M.    P.M.
   12:00                  0         4        1        4       1        8                  0         8        0        6        0         14
   12:15                  1        11        0        3       1      14                   0         9        0        5        0         14
   12:30                  1         6        0        3       1        9                  1        13        0        5        1         18
   12:45                  0         4        1        5       1        9                  0         8        0        3        0         11
   01:00                  0         2        0        4       0        6                  0         6        0        1        0          7
   01:15                  0         7        0        5       0      12                   0         7        0        5        0         12
   01:30                  0         6        0        1       0        7                  0         7        0        1        0          8
   01:45                  0         6        0        4       0      10                   0         5        0        1        0          6
   02:00                  1         5        0        1       1        6                  1         6        1        3        2          9
   02:15                  0         7        0        0       0        7                  0         7        0        2        0          9
   02:30                  1         9        0        4       1      13                   1         3        0        1        1          4
   02:45                  1         8        0        2       1      10                   0        11        0        1        0         12
   03:00                  0         7        2        5       2      12                   0        10        0        8        0         18
   03:15                  0         7        0        0       0        7                  0         6        0        7        0         13
   03:30                  0         6        1        3       1        9                  1         4        0        6        1         10
   03:45                  1         9        0        7       1      16                   0         9        0        5        0         14
   04:00                  0         6        0        3       0        9                  0         9        0        3        0         12
   04:15                  0         7        0        2       0        9                  0         4        0        3        0          7
   04:30                  0         7        0        1       0        8                  1         3        0        5        1          8
   04:45                  0         6        0        4       0      10                   0         7        0        2        0          9
   05:00                  2         9        0        8       2      17                   2         6        0        3        2          9
   05:15                  1         5        1        4       2        9                  3         9        0        3        3         12
   05:30                  1         5        2        5       3      10                   2        10        1        4        3         14
   05:45                  3         9        3        2       6      11                   6         5        2        0        8          5
   06:00                  2         7        0        3       2      10                   3         9        1        5        4         14
   06:15                  5         7        1        0       6        7                  3         9        2        1        5         10
   06:30                  4         4        1        0       5        4                  1         7        3        5        4         12
   06:45                  6         6        1        4       7      10                   8        11        2        3       10         14
   07:00                  9         6        1        0      10        6                  5         5        1        4        6          9
   07:15                 10         6        3        3      13        9                  3         5        1        1        4          6
   07:30                  5         5        7        5      12      10                   7         6        2        5        9         11
   07:45                  5         3        4        1       9        4                  6         3        4        3       10          6
   08:00                  5         2        3        0       8        2                  3         2        1        2        4          4
   08:15                  3         1        4        1       7        2                  4         4        4        4        8          8
   08:30                  4         4        1        2       5        6                  8         2        3        2       11          4
   08:45                  3         4        1        2       4        6                  6         3        6        6       12          9
   09:00                  8         2        5        2      13        4                  7         2        5        1       12          3
   09:15                  3         1        3        2       6        3                  6         2        3        0        9          2
   09:30                  8         5        1        2       9        7                  4         5        3        1        7          6
   09:45                  3         1        3        0       6        1                  4         1        1        2        5          3
   10:00                  6         1        2        0       8        1                  4         1        2        0        6          1
   10:15                  7         2        2        0       9        2                  7         0        1        1        8          1
   10:30                  7         0        1        0       8        0                 12         1        1        1       13          2
   10:45                  3         1        2        2       5        3                  5         1        2        0        7          1
   11:00                  4         3        1        0       5        3                  6         0        4        0       10          0
   11:15                  5         2        2        1       7        3                  5         1        0        0        5          1
   11:30                  3         2        1        1       4        3                  9         3        2        0       11          3
   11:45                 14         0        2        0      16        0                  4         0        5        0        9          0
    Total              145       233        63      111     208     344                148       255        63      130      211        385
 Day Total                  378                174              552                         403                193               596
 % Total             26.3%     42.2%    11.4%     20.1%                              24.8%     42.8%    10.6%     21.8%

   Peak                 06:45   02:15   07:30     04:45    07:00   05:00             10:15     12:00    08:15     03:00    08:30       12:00
    Vol.                   30      31      18        21       44      47                30        38       18        26       44          57
  P.H.F.                0.750   0.861   0.643     0.656    0.846   0.691             0.625     0.731    0.750     0.813    0.917       0.792
                                             Old Colony Planning Council                                              Page 1
                                                   70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U0                                Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #13                               (508) 583-1833                                                 Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                             www.ocpcrpa.org                                               Site Code: 18
                                                                                                       Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                        Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                              W Spring St, w of E Main St (28)



   Start            19-Sep-11    20-Sep-11    21-Sep-11   22-Sep-11   23-Sep-11   24-Sep-11         25-Sep-11         Week
   Time                Mon          Tue         Wed          Thu         Fri         Sat               Sun           Average
     12:00 AM                *          4            1           *           *           *                 *                   2
         01:00               *          0            0           *           *           *                 *                   0
         02:00               *          3            3           *           *           *                 *                   3
         03:00               *          4            1           *           *           *                 *                   2
         04:00               *          0            1           *           *           *                 *                   0
         05:00               *         13           16           *           *           *                 *                  14
         06:00               *         20           23           *           *           *                 *                  22
         07:00               *         44           29           *           *           *                 *                  36
         08:00               *         24           35           *           *           *                 *                  30
         09:00               *         34           33           *           *           *                 *                  34
         10:00               *         30           34           *           *           *                 *                  32
         11:00               *         32           35           *           *           *                 *                  34
     12:00 PM                *         40           57           *           *           *                 *                  48
         01:00               *         35           33           *           *           *                 *                  34
         02:00               *         36           34           *           *           *                 *                  35
         03:00               *         44           55           *           *           *                 *                  50
         04:00               *         36           36           *           *           *                 *                  36
         05:00               *         47           40           *           *           *                 *                  44
         06:00               *         31           50           *           *           *                 *                  40
         07:00               *         29           32           *           *           *                 *                  30
         08:00               *         16           25           *           *           *                 *                  20
         09:00               *         15           14           *           *           *                 *                  14
         10:00               *          6            5           *           *           *                 *                   6
         11:00               *          9            4           *           *           *                 *                   6
          Total             0        552          596            0           0           0                 0                 572
    Percentage           0.0%      96.5%       104.2%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0%              0.0%
      AM Peak                       07:00        08:00                                                                     07:00
           Vol.                        44           35                                                                        36

      PM Peak                      17:00        12:00                                                                      15:00
          Vol.                        47           57                                                                         50
                                                                        Old Colony Planning Council                                                            Page 1
                                                                              70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U0                                                           Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #13                                                          (508) 583-1833                                                               Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                                        www.ocpcrpa.org                                                             Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                                Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                                 Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                       W Spring St, w of E Main St (28)



 Start          19-Sep-11                Tue                   Wed                 Thu               Fri              Sat              Sun             Week Average
 Time          WB         EB     WB             EB      WB            EB      WB         EB    WB          EB    WB         EB    WB         EB       WB        EB
12:00 AM          *         *      2              2       1             0      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         2           1
    01:00         *         *      0              0       0             0      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         0           0
    02:00         *         *      3              0       2             1      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         2           0
    03:00         *         *      1              3       1             0      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         1           2
    04:00         *         *      0              0       1             0      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         0           0
    05:00         *         *      7              6      13             3      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        10           4
    06:00         *         *     17              3      15             8      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        16           6
    07:00         *         *     29             15      21             8      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        25          12
    08:00         *         *     15              9      21            14      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        18          12
    09:00         *         *     22             12      21            12      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        22          12
    10:00         *         *     23              7      28             6      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        26           6
    11:00         *         *     26              6      24            11      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        25           8
12:00 PM          *         *     25             15      38            19      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        32          17
    01:00         *         *     21             14      25             8      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        23          11
    02:00         *         *     29              7      27             7      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        28           7
    03:00         *         *     29             15      29            26      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        29          20
    04:00         *         *     26             10      23            13      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        24          12
    05:00         *         *     28             19      30            10      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        29          14
    06:00         *         *     24              7      36            14      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        30          10
    07:00         *         *     20              9      19            13      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        20          11
    08:00         *         *     11              5      11            14      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        11          10
    09:00         *         *      9              6      10             4      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *        10           5
    10:00         *         *      4              2       3             2      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         4           2
    11:00         *         *      7              2       4             0      *           *     *           *    *           *    *           *         6           1
     Total        0        0     378            174     403           193      0          0     0           0     0          0     0          0       393         183
       Day          0                   552                    596                 0                 0                0                0                   576
AM Peak                         07:00          07:00   10:00         08:00                                                                           10:00       07:00
      Vol.                         29             15      28            14                                                                              26          12
PM Peak                         14:00          17:00   12:00         15:00                                                                           12:00       15:00
      Vol.                         29             19      38            26                                                                              32          20


 Comb. Total            0                       552                   596                0                 0                0                0                   576
                                                   Old Colony Planning Council                                                      Page 1
                                                         70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U0                                      Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #13                                     (508) 583-1833                                                         Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                   www.ocpcrpa.org                                                       Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                     Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                      Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                            W Spring St, w of E Main St (28)



 Start     20-Sep-11         WB                 EB            Combined     21-Sep-           WB                 EB             Combined
 Time         Tue      A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.    A.M.    P.M.    Wed        A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.     A.M.    P.M.
   12:00                  0         4        1        4       1        8                  0         8        0        6        0         14
   12:15                  1        11        0        3       1      14                   0         9        0        5        0         14
   12:30                  1         6        0        3       1        9                  1        13        0        5        1         18
   12:45                  0         4        1        5       1        9                  0         8        0        3        0         11
   01:00                  0         2        0        4       0        6                  0         6        0        1        0          7
   01:15                  0         7        0        5       0      12                   0         7        0        5        0         12
   01:30                  0         6        0        1       0        7                  0         7        0        1        0          8
   01:45                  0         6        0        4       0      10                   0         5        0        1        0          6
   02:00                  1         5        0        1       1        6                  1         6        1        3        2          9
   02:15                  0         7        0        0       0        7                  0         7        0        2        0          9
   02:30                  1         9        0        4       1      13                   1         3        0        1        1          4
   02:45                  1         8        0        2       1      10                   0        11        0        1        0         12
   03:00                  0         7        2        5       2      12                   0        10        0        8        0         18
   03:15                  0         7        0        0       0        7                  0         6        0        7        0         13
   03:30                  0         6        1        3       1        9                  1         4        0        6        1         10
   03:45                  1         9        0        7       1      16                   0         9        0        5        0         14
   04:00                  0         6        0        3       0        9                  0         9        0        3        0         12
   04:15                  0         7        0        2       0        9                  0         4        0        3        0          7
   04:30                  0         7        0        1       0        8                  1         3        0        5        1          8
   04:45                  0         6        0        4       0      10                   0         7        0        2        0          9
   05:00                  2         9        0        8       2      17                   2         6        0        3        2          9
   05:15                  1         5        1        4       2        9                  3         9        0        3        3         12
   05:30                  1         5        2        5       3      10                   2        10        1        4        3         14
   05:45                  3         9        3        2       6      11                   6         5        2        0        8          5
   06:00                  2         7        0        3       2      10                   3         9        1        5        4         14
   06:15                  5         7        1        0       6        7                  3         9        2        1        5         10
   06:30                  4         4        1        0       5        4                  1         7        3        5        4         12
   06:45                  6         6        1        4       7      10                   8        11        2        3       10         14
   07:00                  9         6        1        0      10        6                  5         5        1        4        6          9
   07:15                 10         6        3        3      13        9                  3         5        1        1        4          6
   07:30                  5         5        7        5      12      10                   7         6        2        5        9         11
   07:45                  5         3        4        1       9        4                  6         3        4        3       10          6
   08:00                  5         2        3        0       8        2                  3         2        1        2        4          4
   08:15                  3         1        4        1       7        2                  4         4        4        4        8          8
   08:30                  4         4        1        2       5        6                  8         2        3        2       11          4
   08:45                  3         4        1        2       4        6                  6         3        6        6       12          9
   09:00                  8         2        5        2      13        4                  7         2        5        1       12          3
   09:15                  3         1        3        2       6        3                  6         2        3        0        9          2
   09:30                  8         5        1        2       9        7                  4         5        3        1        7          6
   09:45                  3         1        3        0       6        1                  4         1        1        2        5          3
   10:00                  6         1        2        0       8        1                  4         1        2        0        6          1
   10:15                  7         2        2        0       9        2                  7         0        1        1        8          1
   10:30                  7         0        1        0       8        0                 12         1        1        1       13          2
   10:45                  3         1        2        2       5        3                  5         1        2        0        7          1
   11:00                  4         3        1        0       5        3                  6         0        4        0       10          0
   11:15                  5         2        2        1       7        3                  5         1        0        0        5          1
   11:30                  3         2        1        1       4        3                  9         3        2        0       11          3
   11:45                 14         0        2        0      16        0                  4         0        5        0        9          0
    Total              145       233        63      111     208     344                148       255        63      130      211        385
 Day Total                  378                174              552                         403                193               596
 % Total             26.3%     42.2%    11.4%     20.1%                              24.8%     42.8%    10.6%     21.8%

   Peak                 06:45   02:15   07:30     04:45    07:00   05:00             10:15     12:00    08:15     03:00    08:30       12:00
    Vol.                   30      31      18        21       44      47                30        38       18        26       44          57
  P.H.F.                0.750   0.861   0.643     0.656    0.846   0.691             0.625     0.731    0.750     0.813    0.917       0.792
                                             Old Colony Planning Council                                              Page 1
                                                   70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U0                                Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #13                               (508) 583-1833                                                 Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                             www.ocpcrpa.org                                               Site Code: 18
                                                                                                       Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                        Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                              W Spring St, w of E Main St (28)



   Start            19-Sep-11    20-Sep-11    21-Sep-11   22-Sep-11   23-Sep-11   24-Sep-11         25-Sep-11         Week
   Time                Mon          Tue         Wed          Thu         Fri         Sat               Sun           Average
     12:00 AM                *          4            1           *           *           *                 *                   2
         01:00               *          0            0           *           *           *                 *                   0
         02:00               *          3            3           *           *           *                 *                   3
         03:00               *          4            1           *           *           *                 *                   2
         04:00               *          0            1           *           *           *                 *                   0
         05:00               *         13           16           *           *           *                 *                  14
         06:00               *         20           23           *           *           *                 *                  22
         07:00               *         44           29           *           *           *                 *                  36
         08:00               *         24           35           *           *           *                 *                  30
         09:00               *         34           33           *           *           *                 *                  34
         10:00               *         30           34           *           *           *                 *                  32
         11:00               *         32           35           *           *           *                 *                  34
     12:00 PM                *         40           57           *           *           *                 *                  48
         01:00               *         35           33           *           *           *                 *                  34
         02:00               *         36           34           *           *           *                 *                  35
         03:00               *         44           55           *           *           *                 *                  50
         04:00               *         36           36           *           *           *                 *                  36
         05:00               *         47           40           *           *           *                 *                  44
         06:00               *         31           50           *           *           *                 *                  40
         07:00               *         29           32           *           *           *                 *                  30
         08:00               *         16           25           *           *           *                 *                  20
         09:00               *         15           14           *           *           *                 *                  14
         10:00               *          6            5           *           *           *                 *                   6
         11:00               *          9            4           *           *           *                 *                   6
          Total             0        552          596            0           0           0                 0                 572
    Percentage           0.0%      96.5%       104.2%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0%              0.0%
      AM Peak                       07:00        08:00                                                                     07:00
           Vol.                        44           35                                                                        36

      PM Peak                      17:00        12:00                                                                      15:00
          Vol.                        47           57                                                                         50
                                                                        Old Colony Planning Council                                                                           Page 1
                                                                             70 School Street
                                                                            Brockton, MA 02301                                                                         Station ID:
Community: Avon                                                                508-583-1833                                                                         Site Code: 18
Community #_FC: 18_U5                                                                                                                                      Date Start: 07-Aug-07
Recorder #: Jamar #9                                                                                                                                        Date End: 08-Aug-07
Tube Layout: L6 Basic                                                                                                                        West Main St, south of Harrison Blvd
  Start      06-Aug-07              Tue                 Wed                     Thu                   Fri                   Sat                      Sun              Week Average
  Time      NB       SB       NB           SB      NB           SB         NB           SB       NB           SB       NB           SB          NB           SB       NB       SB
   12:00
     AM         *         *     54          147      56          163            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *      55       155
   01:00        *         *     32           61      44           85            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *      38        73
   02:00        *         *     21           35      15           37            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *      18        36
   03:00        *         *     24           23      32           30            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *      28        26
   04:00        *         *     67           29      71           28            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *      69        28
   05:00        *         *    301           63     317           68            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     309        66
   06:00        *         *    615          144     601          137            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     608       140
   07:00        *         *    654          245     685          242            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     670       244
   08:00        *         *    593          265     596          293            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     594       279
   09:00        *         *    378          302     422          343            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     400       322
   10:00        *         *    353          351     361          336            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     357       344
   11:00        *         *    382          346     403          328            *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     392       337
   12:00
     PM        *          *    393     420          457     484                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     425     452
   01:00       *          *    365     460          426     500                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     396     480
   02:00       *          *    421     509          453     562                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     437     536
   03:00       *          *    409     731          390     721                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     400     726
   04:00       *          *    387     901          430     892                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     408     896
   05:00       *          *    407     880          346     912                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     376     896
   06:00       *          *    356     764          369     744                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     362     754
   07:00       *          *    369     592          352     546                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     360     569
   08:00       *          *    298     455          286     472                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     292     464
   09:00       *          *    220     394          240     396                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     230     395
   10:00       *          *    189     279          183     320                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     186     300
   11:00       *          *     96     218          125     225                 *            *        *            *        *            *           *            *     110     222
    Total      0          0   7384    8614         7660    8864                 0            0        0            0        0            0           0            0    7520    8740
     Day            0           15998                16524                          0                     0                     0                        0               16260
     AM
                              07:00        10:00   07:00        09:00                                                                                                 07:00      10:00
    Peak
     Vol.                      654          351     685          343                                                                                                    670       344
     PM
                              14:00        16:00   12:00        17:00                                                                                                 14:00      16:00
    Peak
     Vol.                      421          901     457          912                                                                                                    437       896


  Comb.
                    0              15998                16524                       0                     0                     0                        0               16260
   Total
                                                Old Colony Planning Council                                          Page 1
                                                     70 School Street
                                                    Brockton, MA 02301                                            Station ID:
Community: Avon                                        508-583-1833                                            Site Code: 18
Community #_FC: 18_U5                                                                                 Date Start: 07-Aug-07
Recorder #: Jamar #9                                                                                   Date End: 08-Aug-07
Tube Layout: L6 Basic                                                                   West Main St, south of Harrison Blvd
   Start        06-Aug-07     07-Aug-07     08-Aug-07     09-Aug-07     10-Aug-07     11-Aug-07     12-Aug-07      Week
   Time            Mon           Tue          Wed            Thu           Fri           Sat           Sun        Average
   12:00 AM               *           201           219             *             *             *             *          210
       01:00              *            93           129             *             *             *             *          111
       02:00              *            56            52             *             *             *             *           54
       03:00              *            47            62             *             *             *             *           54
       04:00              *            96            99             *             *             *             *           98
       05:00              *           364           385             *             *             *             *          374
       06:00              *           759           738             *             *             *             *          748
       07:00              *           899           927             *             *             *             *          913
       08:00              *           858           889             *             *             *             *          874
       09:00              *           680           765             *             *             *             *          722
       10:00              *           704           697             *             *             *             *          700
       11:00              *           728           731             *             *             *             *          730
   12:00 PM               *           813           941             *             *             *             *          877
       01:00              *           825           926             *             *             *             *          876
       02:00              *           930         1015              *             *             *             *          972
       03:00              *          1140         1111              *             *             *             *        1126
       04:00              *          1288          1322             *             *             *             *         1305
       05:00              *          1287         1258              *             *             *             *        1272
       06:00              *          1120         1113              *             *             *             *        1116
       07:00              *           961           898             *             *             *             *          930
       08:00              *           753           758             *             *             *             *          756
       09:00              *           614           636             *             *             *             *          625
       10:00              *           468           503             *             *             *             *          486
       11:00              *           314           350             *             *             *             *          332
        Total            0         15998         16524             0             0             0             0        16261
  Percentage          0.0%         98.4%        101.6%          0.0%          0.0%          0.0%          0.0%
    AM Peak                         07:00         07:00                                                                07:00
         Vol.                         899           927                                                                 913

    PM Peak                         16:00         16:00                                                                16:00
        Vol.                        1288          1322                                                                 1305
                                                                              Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                   70 School Street

                                                                                  Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                     508-583-1833

                                                                                       www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                                     File Name        : West Main Street & Harrison Blvd_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                      Site Code        : 18
Board #/Staff: TDC-8 (1) / Jcal                                                                                                     Start Date       : 9/20/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                                     Page No          :1

                                                                               Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                              West Main Street                        Harrison Boulevard                     West Main Street                          Harrison Boulevard
                                 Southbound                                 Westbound                           Northbound                                   Eastbound
    Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total      Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left     Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
        Factor        1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0                1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0              1.0   1.0     1.0   1.0                1.0        1.0     1.0   1.0
     04:00 PM           9     62      19      0         90       7     150       3      0      160     61    40        7     0        108      18       191     154      0       363          721
     04:15 PM           2     65      18      0         85       7     139       1      0      147     59    48        4     0        111      13       196     137      0       346          689
     04:30 PM           5     63      19      0         87       5     160       2      0      167     64    59        6     0        129      19       220     160      0       399          782
     04:45 PM           3     79      16      0         98       8     130       0      0      138     48    42        7     0         97      14       198     148      0       360          693
          Total       19     269      72      0        360      27     579       6      0      612    232   189      24      0        445      64       805     599      0      1468         2885

     05:00 PM          3     85      18      0         106       5     145      0      0      150     52     55      7      0         114      17      189     154      0        360          730
     05:15 PM          2     77      12      0          91       3     133      4      0      140     54     51      4      0         109      14      206     177      0        397          737
     05:30 PM          6     78      15      0          99       5     111      0      0      116     44     48      6      0          98      11      182     163      1        357          670
     05:45 PM          3     56      14      0          73       4     103      3      1      111     53     52      5      0         110      12      179     129      0        320          614
         Total        14    296      59      0         369      17     492      7      1      517    203    206     22      0         431      54      756     623      1       1434         2751

  Grand Total        33     565    131       0         729       44   1071     13       1   1129    435    395      46      0         876     118     1561    1222      1       2902         5636
    Apprch %         4.5    77.5    18       0                  3.9    94.9    1.2    0.1           49.7   45.1     5.3     0                  4.1     53.8    42.1     0
      Total %        0.6      10    2.3      0        12.9      0.8     19     0.2      0      20    7.7      7     0.8     0        15.5      2.1     27.7    21.7     0        51.5
 FHWA Class 1-3      32     548    124       0        704        40   1029     13       1   1083    427    389      46      0        862      114     1479    1193      0       2786         5435
 % FHWA Class 1-3    97       97   94.7      0        96.6     90.9    96.1   100    100     95.9   98.2   98.5    100      0        98.4     96.6     94.7    97.6     0          96         96.4
 FHWA Class 4          0      10      0      0          10        4       2      0      0       6      0      5       0     0           5        0        4       0     0           4           25
 % FHWA Class 4        0     1.8      0      0         1.4      9.1     0.2      0      0     0.5      0    1.3       0     0         0.6        0      0.3       0     0         0.1           0.4
 FHWA Class 5-13       1       7      7      0          15        0     40       0      0      40      8      1       0     0           9        4       78      29     1        112           176
 % FHWA Class 5-13     3     1.2    5.3      0         2.1        0     3.7      0      0     3.5    1.8    0.3       0     0           1      3.4        5     2.4   100         3.9           3.1
                                                                            Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                 70 School Street

                                                                                Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                   508-583-1833

                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                    File Name    : West Main Street & Harrison Blvd_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                     Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: TDC-8 (1) / Jcal                                                                                    Start Date   : 9/20/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                    Page No      :2

                                                                                     West Main Street
                                                                                  Out      In       Total
                                                                                   516      704      1220
                                                                                      5      10        15
                                                                                      5      15        20
                                                                                   526      729      1255


                                                                                  124  548      32    0
                                                                                    0   10        0   0
                                                                                    7     7       1   0
                                                                                  131  565      33    0
                                                                                Right Thru    Left Peds
                                                     6
                                                   167




                                                              0
                                                              4
                                                  4366


                                                  4539


                                                          114


                                                          118




                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                                 Total




                                                         Left




                                                                                                                          1640


                                                                                                                          1557
                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                               13 1071


                                                                                                               13 1029




                                                                                                                            Harrison Boulevard
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                            79
                               Harrison Boulevard




                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                          North
                                                                        4
                                                                      78
                                                            0 1193 1479


                                                            1 1222 1561
                                                         Peds Right Thru




                                                                                   9/20/2011 04:00 PM
                                            4
                                         112
                                        2786


                                        2902




                                                                                                                    40
                                         In




                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                   9/20/2011 05:45 PM




                                                                                                                                    1129


                                                                                                                                    1083
                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                       40
                                                                  0
                                                                 29




                                                                                                            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                   FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                              44


                                                                                                              40
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                4
                                                                                   FHWA Class 4
                                  2
                                55
                              1580


                              1637
                              Out




                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                             2769


                                                                                                                                             2640
                                                                                   FHWA Class 5-13
                                                            0
                                                            1




                                                                                                                                               119
                                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                 Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                  427    389    46    0
                                                                                      0     5    0    0
                                                                                      8     1    0    0
                                                                                  435    395    46    0


                                                                                  1781      862      2643
                                                                                    14        5        19
                                                                                    36        9        45
                                                                                  1831      876      2707
                                                                                  Out      In       Total
                                                                                     West Main Street
                                                                                       Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                            70 School Street

                                                                                           Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                              508-583-1833

                                                                                                 www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                                                        File Name         : West Main Street & Harrison Blvd_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                                         Site Code         : 18
Board #/Staff: TDC-8 (1) / Jcal                                                                                                                        Start Date        : 9/20/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                                                        Page No           :4



                             West Main Street                                  Harrison Boulevard                             West Main Street                              Harrison Boulevard
                                Southbound                                         Westbound                                     Northbound                                     Eastbound
     Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total        Left                Thru Right Peds        App. Total     Left    Thru Right Peds        App. Total   Left       Thru Right Peds               App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
      04:30 PM         5     63      19        0       87     5                 160       2       0       167          64      59        6      0       129        19        220            160       0       399          782
      04:45 PM         3     79      16        0       98     8                 130       0       0       138          48      42        7      0        97        14        198            148       0       360          693
      05:00 PM         3     85      18        0      106     5                 145       0       0       150          52      55        7      0       114        17        189            154       0       360          730
      05:15 PM         2     77      12        0       91     3                 133       4       0       140          54      51        4      0       109        14        206            177       0       397          737
 Total Volume         13    304      65        0      382   21                  568       6       0       595         218     207      24       0       449        64        813            639       0      1516         2942
  % App. Total       3.4 79.6        17        0            3.5                95.5       1       0                  48.6    46.1      5.3      0                  4.2      53.6           42.2       0
            PHF .650 .894 .855 .000                  .901 .656                 .888    .375    .000       .891       .852    .877    .857    .000       .870     .842       .924           .903    .000       .950         .941
 FHWA Class 1-3       12    296      64        0      372   19                  549       6       0        574        214     203      24       0        441       63        765            623       0      1451         2838
 % FHWA Class 1-3   92.3 97.4 98.5             0     97.4 90.5                 96.7     100       0       96.5       98.2    98.1     100       0       98.2     98.4       94.1           97.5       0       95.7         96.5
  FHWA Class 4         0       3      0        0         3    2                    1      0       0           3          0       3       0      0           3        0          1              0      0          1           10
 % FHWA Class 4        0     1.0      0        0       0.8  9.5                  0.2      0       0         0.5          0     1.4       0      0         0.7        0        0.1              0      0        0.1           0.3
 FHWA Class 5-13       1       5      1        0         7    0                  18       0       0         18           4       1       0      0           5        1        47             16       0         64           94
  % FHWA Class 5-13  7.7     1.6    1.5        0       1.8    0                  3.2      0       0         3.0        1.8     0.5       0      0         1.1      1.6        5.8            2.5      0        4.2           3.2

                                                                                                   West Main Street
                                                                                                Out      In      Total
                                                                                                 272      372       644
                                                                                                    3       3         6
                                                                                                    2       7         9
                                                                                                 277      382       659


                                                                                                 64  296             12    0
                                                                                                  0     3              0   0
                                                                                                  1     5              1   0
                                                                                                 65  304             13    0
                                                                                              Right Thru           Left Peds




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                                     2278


                                                     2367
                                                       87
                                                        2




                                                              63


                                                              64
                                                                0
                                                                1




                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                                    Total




                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                  850


                                                                                                                                                                  801
                                   Harrison Boulevard




                                                                                                                                                                   Harrison Boulevard
                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 6



                                                                                                                                                                   48
                                                                                                                                                                     1




                                                                                                         North
                                                                        765


                                                                        813
                                                                         47
                                                                           1


                                                            Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                    568


                                                                                                                                                    549
                                            1451


                                            1516
                                               64
                                                1




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                     18
                                             In




                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                                            595


                                                                                                                                                                            574




                                                                                              FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                                                                                             18
                                                                   623


                                                                   639
                                                                    16
                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                             Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                              3




                                                                                              FHWA Class 4
                                                                                                                                               21


                                                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 2
                                    23
                                      1
                                   827


                                   851




                                                                                              FHWA Class 5-13
                                  Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                    1445


                                                                                                                                                                                    1375
                                                                                                                                                                                      66
                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                214  203    24    0
                                                                                                   0    3    0    0
                                                                                                   4    1    0    0
                                                                                                218  207    24    0


                                                                                                 938      441     1379
                                                                                                    5       3        8
                                                                                                  21        5       26
                                                                                                 964      449     1413
                                                                                                Out      In      Total
                                                                                                   West Main Street
                                                                              Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                   70 School Street

                                                                                  Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                     508-583-1833

                                                                                       www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                                     File Name        : West Main Street & Harrison Blvd_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                      Site Code        : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (3) / AV                                                                                                      Start Date       : 9/20/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                                     Page No          :1

                                                                               Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                              West Main Street                        Harrison Boulevard                     West Main Street                          Harrison Boulevard
                                 Southbound                                 Westbound                           Northbound                                   Eastbound
    Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total      Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left     Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
        Factor        1.0     1.0     1.0   1.0                1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0              1.0   1.0     1.0   1.0                1.0        1.0     1.0   1.0
     07:00 AM           0     26      38      1         65       3     146       1      1      151    122    68        5     0        195      19        96      50      0        165         576
     07:15 AM           2     36      36      0         74       2     151       1      0      154    112    93        7     0        212      17       132      41      0        190         630
     07:30 AM           2     44      62      0        108       4     188       1      0      193    109    67        6     0        182      32       153      58      0        243         726
     07:45 AM           0     25      36      0         61       7     186       3      0      196     76    73        9     0        158      24       155      62      1        242         657
          Total         4    131     172      1        308      16     671       6      1      694    419   301      27      0        747      92       536     211      1        840        2589

     08:00 AM          3     42      40      0          85       3     154      1      0      158     79     65      2      0         146      24      152     57       0         233         622
     08:15 AM          4     48      38      0          90       7     174      1      0      182     77     56      7      0         140      20      128     51       0         199         611
     08:30 AM          3     36      39      0          78       1     131      0      0      132     53     44      6      0         103      21      122     43       0         186         499
     08:45 AM          2     32      33      0          67       5     148      0      0      153     71     52      3      0         126      11       98     42       0         151         497
         Total        12    158     150      0         320      16     607      2      0      625    280    217     18      0         515      76      500    193       0         769        2229

  Grand Total          16   289    322        1        628       32   1278       8      1   1319    699    518      45      0       1262      168     1036    404       1       1609         4818
    Apprch %          2.5     46   51.3     0.2                 2.4    96.9    0.6    0.1           55.4     41     3.6     0                 10.4     64.4   25.1    0.1
      Total %         0.3      6    6.7       0         13      0.7    26.5    0.2      0    27.4   14.5   10.8     0.9     0        26.2      3.5     21.5    8.4      0        33.4
 FHWA Class 1-3        13   277    303        1       594        25   1153       8      0   1186    675    495      45      0       1215      158      919    388       1       1466         4461
 % FHWA Class 1-3    81.2   95.8   94.1    100        94.6     78.1    90.2   100       0    89.9   96.6   95.6    100      0        96.3       94     88.7     96   100         91.1         92.6
 FHWA Class 4           2      9      2       0         13        7       1      0      0       8      1     12       0     0          13        0        2      0      0           2           36
 % FHWA Class 4      12.5    3.1    0.6       0        2.1     21.9     0.1      0      0     0.6    0.1    2.3       0     0           1        0      0.2      0      0         0.1           0.7
 FHWA Class 5-13        1      3    17        0         21        0    124       0      1    125     23      11       0     0          34       10     115      16      0        141           321
 % FHWA Class 5-13    6.2      1    5.3       0        3.3        0     9.7      0   100      9.5    3.3    2.1       0     0         2.7        6     11.1      4      0         8.8           6.7
                                                                            Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                 70 School Street

                                                                                Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                   508-583-1833

                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                    File Name    : West Main Street & Harrison Blvd_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                     Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (3) / AV                                                                                     Start Date   : 9/20/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                    Page No      :2

                                                                                     West Main Street
                                                                                  Out      In       Total
                                                                                   661      594      1255
                                                                                    12       13        25
                                                                                    21       21        42
                                                                                   694      628      1322


                                                                                  303  277      13    1
                                                                                    2     9       2   0
                                                                                   17     3       1   0
                                                                                  322  289      16    1
                                                                                Right Thru    Left Peds
                                                     6
                                                   305




                                                              0
                                                  3597


                                                  3908




                                                           10
                                                          158


                                                          168




                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                                 Total




                                                         Left




                                                                                                                          1097



                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                           116

                                                                                                                           977

                                                                                                                            Harrison Boulevard
                                                                                                                8 1278
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                8 1153
                               Harrison Boulevard




                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                          North
                                                                        2
                                                                     919

                                                                     115
                                                                404 1036
                                                         Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                   124
                                                                                   9/20/2011 07:00 AM
                                            2
                                         141
                                        1466


                                        1609
                                         In




                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                   9/20/2011 08:45 AM




                                                                                                                                    1319


                                                                                                                                    1186
                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                      125
                                                                  0
                                                                 16
                                                                388




                                                                                                            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                   FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                              32


                                                                                                              25
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                7
                                                                                   FHWA Class 4
                                  4
                               164
                              2131


                              2299
                              Out




                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                             2416


                                                                                                                                             2163
                                                                                   FHWA Class 5-13
                                                            1
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            1




                                                                                                                                               241
                                                                                                                                                12
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                 Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                  675    495    45    0
                                                                                      1   12     0    0
                                                                                   23     11     0    0
                                                                                  699    518    45    0


                                                                                   690     1215      1905
                                                                                    16        13       29
                                                                                    19        34       53
                                                                                   725     1262      1987
                                                                                  Out       In      Total
                                                                                     West Main Street
                                                                                        Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                             70 School Street

                                                                                            Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                               508-583-1833

                                                                                                   www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                                                          File Name         : West Main Street & Harrison Blvd_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                                           Site Code         : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (3) / AV                                                                                                                           Start Date        : 9/20/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                                                          Page No           :4



                             West Main Street                                   Harrison Boulevard                              West Main Street                              Harrison Boulevard
                                Southbound                                          Westbound                                      Northbound                                     Eastbound
     Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total         Left                Thru Right Peds         App. Total     Left    Thru Right Peds        App. Total   Left       Thru Right Peds                App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
      07:15 AM         2     36      36        0       74     2                  151        1       0       154         112      93        7      0       212        17        132             41        0       190          630
      07:30 AM         2     44      62        0      108     4                  188        1       0       193         109      67        6      0       182        32        153             58        0       243          726
      07:45 AM         0     25      36        0       61     7                  186        3       0       196          76      73        9      0       158        24        155             62        1       242          657
      08:00 AM         3     42      40        0       85     3                  154        1       0       158          79      65        2      0       146        24        152             57        0       233          622
 Total Volume          7    147     174        0      328    16                  679        6       0       701         376     298      24       0       698        97        592            218        1       908         2635
  % App. Total       2.1 44.8        53        0            2.3                 96.9      0.9       0                  53.9    42.7      3.4      0                10.7       65.2             24      0.1
            PHF .583 .835 .702 .000                  .759 .571                  .903    .500     .000       .894       .839    .801    .667    .000       .823     .758       .955           .879    .250        .934         .907
 FHWA Class 1-3        7    141     163        0      311    13                  619        6       0        638        369     285      24       0        678       93        533            210        1        837        2464
 % FHWA Class 1-3   100 95.9 93.7              0     94.8 81.3                  91.2     100        0       91.0       98.1    95.6     100       0       97.1     95.9       90.0           96.3     100        92.2         93.5
  FHWA Class 4         0       4       1       0         5    3                     0       0       0           3          0       7       0      0           7        0         0               0       0           0          15
 % FHWA Class 4        0     2.7     0.6       0       1.5 18.8                     0       0       0         0.4          0     2.3       0      0         1.0        0         0               0       0           0          0.6
 FHWA Class 5-13       0       2     10        0       12     0                   60        0       0         60           7       6       0      0         13         4        59               8       0          71         156
  % FHWA Class 5-13    0     1.4     5.7       0       3.7    0                   8.8       0       0         8.6        1.9     2.0       0      0         1.9      4.1      10.0             3.7       0         7.8          5.9

                                                                                                     West Main Street
                                                                                                  Out      In      Total
                                                                                                   384      311       695
                                                                                                      7       5        12
                                                                                                    10       12        22
                                                                                                   401      328       729


                                                                                                  163  141               7   0
                                                                                                    1     4              0   0
                                                                                                   10     2              0   0
                                                                                                  174  147               7   0
                                                                                                Right Thru           Left Peds




                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                      1988


                                                      2137
                                                       148
                                                         1




                                                               93


                                                               97
                                                                 0
                                                                 4




                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                     Total




                                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                                                    623


                                                                                                                                                                    564
                                    Harrison Boulevard




                                                                                                                                                                     Harrison Boulevard
                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   6



                                                                                                                                                                     59
                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                           North
                                                                         533


                                                                         592
                                                                          59
                                                                            0


                                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                      679


                                                                                                                                                      619
                                               837


                                               908
                                                71
                                                 0




                                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                                                       60
                                              In




                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                                                              701


                                                                                                                                                                              638




                                                                                                FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                                                                                                               60
                                                                    210


                                                                    218
                                                                      0
                                                                      8




                                                                                                                                               Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                3




                                                                                                FHWA Class 4
                                                                                                                                                 16


                                                                                                                                                 13
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   3
                                   1151


                                   1229
                                     77
                                       1




                                                                                                FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                1
                                                                0
                                                                0
                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                      1324


                                                                                                                                                                                      1202
                                                                                                                                                                                       119
                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                 Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                  369  285    24    0
                                                                                                     0    7    0    0
                                                                                                     7    6    0    0
                                                                                                  376  298    24    0


                                                                                                   364      678     1042
                                                                                                      7       7       14
                                                                                                    10       13       23
                                                                                                   381      698     1079
                                                                                                  Out      In      Total
                                                                                                     West Main Street
                                                                     Old Colony Planning Council                                                            Page 1
                                                                           70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U5
                                                                         Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #8                                                       (508) 583-1833                                                                Station ID:
Tube Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                                www.ocpcrpa.org                                                             Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                             Date Start: 03-Aug-10
                                                                                                                                              Date End: 04-Aug-10
                                                                                                                               Harrison Blvd, west of West Main St



 Start           02-Aug-10             Tue               Wed                    Thu                Fri              Sat              Sun           Week Average
 Time           EB        WB       EB        WB      EB        WB         EB          WB   EB            WB   EB          WB   EB          WB      EB       WB
12:00 AM           *       *        93       205      84       190          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *       88         198
    01:00          *       *        54        88      67        95          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *       60          92
    02:00          *       *        47        75      49        81          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *       48          78
    03:00          *       *        65        45      57        54          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *       61          50
    04:00          *       *       138        54     152        61          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      145          58
    05:00          *       *       489       142     468       134          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      478         138
    06:00          *       *       946       311     935       317          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      940         314
    07:00          *       *      1115      551     1093       515          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *     1104         533
    08:00          *       *       874      560      875       556          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      874         558
    09:00          *       *       779      622      785       611          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      782         616
    10:00          *       *       718       574     665       591          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      692         582
    11:00          *       *       715       665     706       667          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      710         666
12:00 PM           *       *       720       698     718       672          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      719         685
    01:00          *       *       751       712     761       764          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      756         738
    02:00          *       *       766       799     788       823          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      777         811
    03:00          *       *       690     1081      795      1013          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      742        1047
    04:00          *       *       660     1119      711      1183          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      686        1151
    05:00          *       *       730     1331      690      1247          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      710        1289
    06:00          *       *       678     1067      612       996          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      645        1032
    07:00          *       *       533      740      577       750          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      555         745
    08:00          *       *       435       621     465       641          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      450         631
    09:00          *       *       326       455     323       648          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      324         552
    10:00          *       *       264       369     289       435          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      276         402
    11:00          *       *       183       309     204       309          *          *     *            *     *          *     *          *      194         309
    Total          0       0     12769    13193    12869    13353          0           0    0             0    0           0    0           0    12816      13275
       Day           0               25962             26222                    0                0                  0                0               26091
AM Peak                          07:00     11:00   07:00     11:00                                                                               07:00       11:00
      Vol.                        1115       665    1093       667                                                                                1104         666
PM Peak                          14:00     17:00   15:00     17:00                                                                               14:00       17:00
      Vol.                         766     1331      795      1247                                                                                 777        1289


      Comb.
                             0             25962             26222                    0                  0                0                0                 26091
       Total
                                                  Old Colony Planning Council                                                    Page 1
                                                        70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U5
                                                      Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #8                                     (508) 583-1833                                                       Station ID:
Tube Layout: L6 Basic (2')                             www.ocpcrpa.org                                                     Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                  Date Start: 03-Aug-10
                                                                                                                   Date End: 04-Aug-10
                                                                                                    Harrison Blvd, west of West Main St



Start     03-Aug-10        EB                WB            Combined     04-Aug-          EB                WB              Combined
Time         Tue      A.M.     P.M.     A.M.     P.M.    A.M.    P.M.    Wed        A.M.     P.M.     A.M.     P.M.      A.M.    P.M.
  12:00                 24     193        52     149      76     342                  24     166        53     173        77        339
  12:15                 29     181        54     186      83     367                  21     167        48     172        69        339
  12:30                 20     158        49     189      69     347                  26     182        46     162        72        344
  12:45                 20     188        50     174      70     362                  13     203        43     165        56        368
  01:00                 12     167        30     187      42     354                  17     203        23     184        40        387
  01:15                 22     189        23     183      45     372                  17     175        30     200        47        375
  01:30                 11     193        26     174      37     367                  22     186        29     209        51        395
  01:45                  9     202         9     168      18     370                  11     197        13     171        24        368
  02:00                 16     183        15     197      31     380                   9     189        26     192        35        381
  02:15                  9     199        16     195      25     394                  14     209        20     206        34        415
  02:30                 13     178        26     211      39     389                  16     208        15     210        31        418
  02:45                  9     206        18     196      27     402                  10     182        20     215        30        397
  03:00                 12     179        12     241      24     420                   7     187        14     219        21        406
  03:15                 15     161        14     280      29     441                  13     216        15     270        28        486
  03:30                 15     204        11     282      26     486                  18     188        11     251        29        439
  03:45                 23     146         8     278      31     424                  19     204        14     273        33        477
  04:00                 18     167        10     256      28     423                  21     182        12     283        33        465
  04:15                 26     143        11     304      37     447                  28     182        15     322        43        504
  04:30                 38     161        15     249      53     410                  42     172        11     266        53        438
  04:45                 56     189        18     310      74     499                  61     175        23     312        84        487
  05:00                 57     169        22     309      79     478                  70     181        26     303        96        484
  05:15                 95     191        32     350     127     541                  96     175        32     319       128        494
  05:30               135      195        36     316     171     511                125      161        36     313       161        474
  05:45               202      175        52     356     254     531                177      173        40     312       217        485
  06:00               190      175        50     327     240     502                204      175        45     270       249        445
  06:15               235      164        64     306     299     470                192      165        84     253       276        418
  06:30               253      169        84     205     337     374                255      151        86     256       341        407
  06:45               268      170      113      229     381     399                284      121      102      217       386        338
  07:00               307      153      116      187     423     340                303      156      112      183       415        339
  07:15               251      141      125      200     376     341                256      149      107      187       363        336
  07:30               268      127      141      182     409     309                275      140      151      204       426        344
  07:45               289      112      169      171     458     283                259      132      145      176       404        308
  08:00               241      131      158      141     399     272                266      125      128      155       394        280
  08:15               196      103      140      171     336     274                191      107      134      168       325        275
  08:30               213      106      125      162     338     268                197      114      142      172       339        286
  08:45               224        95     137      147     361     242                221      119      152      146       373        265
  09:00               204        86     155      110     359     196                207        94     150      171       357        265
  09:15               192        77     154      104     346     181                199        77     174      170       373        247
  09:30               200        84     139      123     339     207                191        83     125      151       316        234
  09:45               183        79     174      118     357     197                188        69     162      156       350        225
  10:00               197        56     152      113     349     169                148        70     128      117       276        187
  10:15               191        85     130        90    321     175                175        68     134      127       309        195
  10:30               154        60     155        88    309     148                161        74     170      120       331        194
  10:45               176        63     137        78    313     141                181        77     159        71      340        148
  11:00               180        72     152        68    332     140                172        79     144        93      316        172
  11:15               180        41     167        70    347     111                153        56     166        67      319        123
  11:30               167        33     172        89    339     122                204        34     170        86      374        120
  11:45               188        37     174        82    362     119                177        35     187        63      364         98
   Total             6033     6736     3892     9301    9925   16037               5936     6933     3872     9481      9808     16414
Day Total                12769             13193           25962                       12869             13353             26222
% Total     0.0%    23.2%    25.9%    15.0%    35.8%                              22.6%    26.4%    14.8%    36.2%

   Peak               07:00   01:30   11:00    05:15    07:00   05:15             06:45    01:45    11:00     04:45     07:00       04:45
    Vol.               1115     777     665     1349     1666    2085              1118      803      667      1247      1608        1939
  P.H.F.              0.908   0.962   0.955    0.947    0.909   0.963             0.922    0.961    0.892     0.977     0.944       0.981
                                             Old Colony Planning Council                                            Page 1
                                                   70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U5
                                                 Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #8                                (508) 583-1833                                               Station ID:
Tube Layout: L6 Basic (2')                        www.ocpcrpa.org                                             Site Code: 18
                                                                                                     Date Start: 03-Aug-10
                                                                                                      Date End: 04-Aug-10
                                                                                       Harrison Blvd, west of West Main St



   Start             02-Aug-10   03-Aug-10   04-Aug-10   05-Aug-10    06-Aug-10   07-Aug-10      08-Aug-10          Week
   Time                 Mon         Tue         Wed         Thu           Fri        Sat            Sun            Average
     12:00 AM                *        298         274           *             *          *              *                 286
         01:00               *        142         162           *             *          *              *                 152
         02:00               *        122         130           *             *          *              *                 126
         03:00               *        110         111           *             *          *              *                 110
         04:00               *        192         213           *             *          *              *                 202
         05:00               *        631         602           *             *          *              *                 616
         06:00               *       1257        1252           *             *          *              *                1254
         07:00               *       1666        1608           *             *          *              *                1637
         08:00               *       1434        1431           *             *          *              *                1432
         09:00               *       1401        1396           *             *          *              *                1398
         10:00               *       1292        1256           *             *          *              *                1274
         11:00               *       1380        1373           *             *          *              *                1376
     12:00 PM                *       1418        1390           *             *          *              *                1404
         01:00               *       1463        1525           *             *          *              *                1494
         02:00               *       1565        1611           *             *          *              *                1588
         03:00               *       1771        1808           *             *          *              *                1790
         04:00               *       1779        1894           *             *          *              *                1836
         05:00               *       2061        1937           *             *          *              *                1999
         06:00               *       1745        1608           *             *          *              *                1676
         07:00               *       1273        1327           *             *          *              *                1300
         08:00               *       1056        1106           *             *          *              *                1081
         09:00               *        781         971           *             *          *              *                 876
         10:00               *        633         724           *             *          *              *                 678
         11:00               *        492         513           *             *          *              *                 502
         Total               0     25962       26222           0              0          0             0                26087
   Percentage            0.0%      99.5%      100.5%        0.0%         0.0%        0.0%           0.0%
      AM Peak                       07:00       07:00                                                                    07:00
          Vol.                       1666        1608                                                                     1637

      PM Peak                      17:00       17:00                                                                     17:00
          Vol.                      2061        1937                                                                      1999
                                                                     Old Colony Planning Council                                                                Page 1
                                                                           70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U5
                                                                         Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #15                                                      (508) 583-1833                                                                    Station ID:
Tube Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                                www.ocpcrpa.org                                                                 Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                                 Date Start: 03-Aug-10
                                                                                                                                                  Date End: 04-Aug-10
                                                                                                                                Harrison Blvd, west of East Main St (28)



 Start          02-Aug-10              Tue               Wed                   Thu                 Fri              Sat                Sun              Week Average
 Time          WB         EB       WB        EB      WB        EB         WB         EB    WB            EB    WB         EB      WB         EB         WB       EB
12:00 AM          *         *       52        90      54       110         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *         53         100
    01:00         *         *       40        50      38        42         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *         39          46
    02:00         *         *       29        38      26        37         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *         28          38
    03:00         *         *       31        27      36        31         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *         34          29
    04:00         *         *       89        37      96        41         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *         92          39
    05:00         *         *      260        97     252        85         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        256          91
    06:00         *         *      576      199      524       217         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        550         208
    07:00         *         *      682       372     689       329         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        686         350
    08:00         *         *      596       406     602       369         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        599         388
    09:00         *         *      494       419     512       385         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        503         402
    10:00         *         *      483       387     483       408         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        483         398
    11:00         *         *      514       418     483       431         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        498         424
12:00 PM          *         *      491       457     481       434         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        486         446
    01:00         *         *      510       463     493       434         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        502         448
    02:00         *         *      490       472     511       507         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        500         490
    03:00         *         *      505       572     549       575         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        527         574
    04:00         *         *      499       637     532       654         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        516         646
    05:00         *         *      538       672     519       637         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        528         654
    06:00         *         *      464       570     410       581         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        437         576
    07:00         *         *      366       420     372       425         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        369         422
    08:00         *         *      303       401     311       374         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        307         388
    09:00         *         *      213       244     222       353         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        218         298
    10:00         *         *      153       193     169       231         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        161         212
    11:00         *         *      121       150     116       146         *           *    *              *    *           *      *           *        118         148
    Total         0        0      8499     7791     8480      7836         0          0     0             0     0          0       0          0        8490        7815
       Day          0                16290             16316                   0                0                   0                  0                  16305
AM Peak                          07:00     09:00   07:00     11:00                                                                                    07:00       11:00
      Vol.                         682       419     689       431                                                                                      686         424
PM Peak                          17:00     17:00   15:00     16:00                                                                                    17:00       17:00
      Vol.                         538       672     549       654                                                                                      528         654


      Comb.
                             0             16290             16316                   0                   0                0                   0                  16305
       Total
                                                    Old Colony Planning Council                                                       Page 1
                                                          70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U5
                                                        Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #15                                      (508) 583-1833                                                          Station ID:
Tube Layout: L6 Basic (2')                               www.ocpcrpa.org                                                        Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                       Date Start: 03-Aug-10
                                                                                                                        Date End: 04-Aug-10
                                                                                                      Harrison Blvd, west of East Main St (28)



Start     03-Aug-10        WB                  EB            Combined     04-Aug-          WB                    EB              Combined
Time         Tue      A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.    A.M.    P.M.    Wed        A.M.      P.M.       A.M.      P.M.      A.M.    P.M.
  12:00                 14      130        19      100      33     230                  18       99          36      102        54        201
  12:15                 13      126        28      117      41     243                  18      109          24      117        42        226
  12:30                 12      107        19      130      31     237                  11      143          21      102        32        245
  12:45                 13      128        24      110      37     238                   7      130          29      113        36        243
  01:00                 11      120        18      119      29     239                   7      131          12       98        19        229
  01:15                 14      124        13      123      27     247                  15      108          12      110        27        218
  01:30                 11      129        10      113      21     242                  11      123          12      122        23        245
  01:45                  4      137         9      108      13     245                   5      131           6      104        11        235
  02:00                  9      120         8      114      17     234                   6      124          12      138        18        262
  02:15                  6      118        10      107      16     225                   5      127           9      125        14        252
  02:30                  8      113        15      127      23     240                   7      132           8      122        15        254
  02:45                  6      139         5      124      11     263                   8      128           8      122        16        250
  03:00                  3      111         8      115      11     226                   7      136           6      129        13        265
  03:15                  5      124        10      162      15     286                   7      154           8      156        15        310
  03:30                  7      144         4      146      11     290                   7      126           8      152        15        278
  03:45                 16      126         5      149      21     275                  15      133           9      138        24        271
  04:00                 13      132         7      165      20     297                  12      138           9      150        21        288
  04:15                 17      113         4      157      21     270                  18      135          10      181        28        316
  04:30                 27      124        11      165      38     289                  29      120           7      168        36        288
  04:45                 32      130        15      150      47     280                  37      139          15      155        52        294
  05:00                 30      128        18      165      48     293                  40      130          16      151        56        281
  05:15                 51      138        21      179      72     317                  48      142          19      166        67        308
  05:30                 68      142        28      161      96     303                  64      121          21      166        85        287
  05:45               111       130        30      167     141     297                100       126          29      154       129        280
  06:00               116       137        33      171     149     308                118       122          31      190       149        312
  06:15               153        93        32      153     185     246                110       109          50      136       160        245
  06:30               151       116        65      122     216     238                157        94          57      133       214        227
  06:45               156       118        69      124     225     242                139        85          79      122       218        207
  07:00               174       114        75       99     249     213                204        84          69      119       273        203
  07:15               164        91        82      108     246     199                163       103          75       98       238        201
  07:30               152        77        93      109     245     186                155       103          94      102       249        205
  07:45               192        84      122       104     314     188                167        82          91      106       258        188
  08:00               170       104      118       100     288     204                173        92          87      102       260        194
  08:15               133        66        89      108     222     174                131        72          92       86       223        158
  08:30               146        70        99      102     245     172                146        74          99      102       245        176
  08:45               147        63      100        91     247     154                152        73          91       84       243        157
  09:00               122        64        94       59     216     123                147        61          94      101       241        162
  09:15               125        48      106        65     231     113                117        60        109        87       226        147
  09:30               129        52        96       59     225     111                130        51          96       91       226        142
  09:45               118        49      123        61     241     110                118        50          86       74       204        124
  10:00               136        37      105        54     241      91                111        34          89       72       200        106
  10:15               116        48        94       63     210     111                128        47          91       52       219         99
  10:30               116        36        86       39     202      75                127        40        117        63       244        103
  10:45               115        32      102        37     217      69                117        48        111        44       228         92
  11:00               133        46        97       42     230      88                127        43          94       42       221         85
  11:15               128        26        90       30     218      56                110        31        109        38       219         69
  11:30               126        26      112        43     238      69                132        22        105        29       237         51
  11:45               127        23      119        35     246      58                114        20        123        37       237         57
   Total             3846      4653     2540      5251    6386    9904               3795      4685       2485      5351      6280     10036
Day Total                 8499               7791            16290                        8480                 7836              16316
% Total     0.0%    23.6%    28.6%     15.6%    32.2%                               23.3%    28.7%       15.2%    32.8%

   Peak               07:00   05:15    09:15     05:15    07:15   05:15             07:00     03:15      10:30     05:15     07:00       05:15
    Vol.                682     547      430       678     1093    1225               689       551        431       676      1018        1187
  P.H.F.              0.888   0.963    0.874     0.947    0.870   0.966             0.844     0.894      0.921     0.889     0.932       0.939
                                             Old Colony Planning Council                                           Page 1
                                                   70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U5
                                                 Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #15                               (508) 583-1833                                              Station ID:
Tube Layout: L6 Basic (2')                        www.ocpcrpa.org                                            Site Code: 18
                                                                                                    Date Start: 03-Aug-10
                                                                                                     Date End: 04-Aug-10
                                                                                   Harrison Blvd, west of East Main St (28)



   Start             02-Aug-10   03-Aug-10   04-Aug-10   05-Aug-10    06-Aug-10   07-Aug-10      08-Aug-10         Week
   Time                 Mon         Tue         Wed         Thu           Fri        Sat            Sun           Average
     12:00 AM                *        142         164           *             *          *              *                153
         01:00               *         90          80           *             *          *              *                 85
         02:00               *         67          63           *             *          *              *                 65
         03:00               *         58          67           *             *          *              *                 62
         04:00               *        126         137           *             *          *              *                132
         05:00               *        357         337           *             *          *              *                347
         06:00               *        775         741           *             *          *              *                758
         07:00               *       1054        1018           *             *          *              *               1036
         08:00               *       1002         971           *             *          *              *                986
         09:00               *        913         897           *             *          *              *                905
         10:00               *        870         891           *             *          *              *                880
         11:00               *        932         914           *             *          *              *                923
     12:00 PM                *        948         915           *             *          *              *                932
         01:00               *        973         927           *             *          *              *                950
         02:00               *        962        1018           *             *          *              *                990
         03:00               *       1077        1124           *             *          *              *               1100
         04:00               *       1136        1186           *             *          *              *               1161
         05:00               *       1210        1156           *             *          *              *               1183
         06:00               *       1034         991           *             *          *              *               1012
         07:00               *        786         797           *             *          *              *                792
         08:00               *        704         685           *             *          *              *                694
         09:00               *        457         575           *             *          *              *                516
         10:00               *        346         400           *             *          *              *                373
         11:00               *        271         262           *             *          *              *                266
         Total               0     16290       16316           0              0          0             0               16301
   Percentage            0.0%      99.9%      100.1%        0.0%         0.0%        0.0%           0.0%
      AM Peak                       07:00       07:00                                                                   07:00
          Vol.                       1054        1018                                                                    1036

      PM Peak                      17:00       16:00                                                                    17:00
          Vol.                      1210        1186                                                                     1183
                                                               Old Colony Planning Council                                                                  Page 1
                                                                     70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                                  Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #11                                                 (508) 583-1833                                                                     Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                               www.ocpcrpa.org                                                                   Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                             Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                              Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                     East Spring St, at Holbrook T/L



 Start          19-Sep-11             Tue               Wed                Thu               Fri               Sat               Sun               Week Average
 Time          EB        WB      EB        WB       EB       WB      EB          WB    EB          WB    EB          WB    EB           WB         EB       WB
12:00 AM          *       *       35         26      30        17      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          32          22
    01:00         *       *       19         10      10        16      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          14          13
    02:00         *       *       17          7      10         9      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          14           8
    03:00         *       *       13          6      14        11      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          14           8
    04:00         *       *       21         48      24        46      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          22          47
    05:00         *       *       69       139       60      125       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          64        132
    06:00         *       *     145        260     132       269       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        138         264
    07:00         *       *     240        318     209       362       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        224         340
    08:00         *       *     231        308     251       320       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        241         314
    09:00         *       *     196        242     191       211       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        194         226
    10:00         *       *     198        192     207       203       *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *       202         198
    11:00         *       *     211        197     205       198       *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *       208         198
12:00 PM          *        *    254        211     236       228       *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *       245         220
    01:00         *        *    232        200     247       220       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        240         210
    02:00         *       *     273        222     288       232       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        280         227
    03:00         *       *     391        241     396       264       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        394         252
    04:00         *       *     455        232     478       234       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        466         233
    05:00         *       *     447        257     463       246       *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *        455         252
    06:00         *       *     330        177     354       206       *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *       342         192
    07:00         *       *     219        131     213       171       *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *       216         151
    08:00         *        *    137        100     157       106       *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *       147         103
    09:00         *        *      88         55    104         77      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          96          66
    10:00         *       *       72         58      77        50      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          74          54
    11:00         *       *       60         41      46        35      *          *      *          *      *           *     *           *          53          38
     Total        0       0    4353       3678    4402      3856      0           0     0           0     0           0     0            0       4375        3768
       Day          0               8031               8258                0                 0                 0                 0                    8143
AM Peak                        07:00      07:00   08:00     07:00                                                                                08:00       07:00
      Vol.                      240        318     251       362                                                                                  241         340
PM Peak                        16:00      17:00   16:00     15:00                                                                                16:00       15:00
      Vol.                      455        257     478       264                                                                                  466         252


 Comb. Total            0                 8031              8258                 0                 0                 0                   0                   8143
                                                   Old Colony Planning Council                                                          Page 1
                                                         70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                      Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #11                                     (508) 583-1833                                                             Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                   www.ocpcrpa.org                                                           Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                         Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                          Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                                 East Spring St, at Holbrook T/L



 Start     20-Sep-11         EB                WB             Combined      21-Sep-           EB                WB                Combined
 Time         Tue      A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.    A.M.     P.M.    Wed        A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.       A.M.    P.M.
   12:00                 11       75         7       48      18      123                   8       63         3       47         11        110
   12:15                  9       49         9       61      18      110                   6       42         6       59         12        101
   12:30                  8       63         7       56      15      119                   5       57         3       64          8        121
   12:45                  7       67         3       46      10      113                  11       74         5       58         16        132
   01:00                  6       53         2       56       8      109                   1       64         8       52          9        116
   01:15                  7       57         1       44       8      101                   3       54         2       53          5        107
   01:30                  4       56         5       52       9      108                   4       58         4       53          8        111
   01:45                  2       66         2       48       4      114                   2       71         2       62          4        133
   02:00                  4       61         2       58       6      119                   2       55         0       52          2        107
   02:15                  5       64         1       58       6      122                   5       86         2       56          7        142
   02:30                  5       75         3       56       8      131                   3       67         4       62          7        129
   02:45                  3       73         1       50       4      123                   0       80         3       62          3        142
   03:00                  4       82         1       56       5      138                   2       76         4       46          6        122
   03:15                  2       83         1       62       3      145                   2      105         1       68          3        173
   03:30                  1      118         0       66       1      184                   4      102         4       74          8        176
   03:45                  6      108         4       57      10      165                   6      113         2       76          8        189
   04:00                  6      118         6       63      12      181                   6      116         7       69         13        185
   04:15                  6      104        13       64      19      168                   4       97        12       56         16        153
   04:30                  3      113        14       52      17      165                   6      141        15       51         21        192
   04:45                  6      120        15       53      21      173                   8      124        12       58         20        182
   05:00                 16      127        23       72      39      199                  15      111        19       59         34        170
   05:15                 15      107        24       68      39      175                  14      134        24       77         38        211
   05:30                 21       99        43       59      64      158                  13      122        43       61         56        183
   05:45                 17      114        49       58      66      172                  18       96        39       49         57        145
   06:00                 26       75        49       39      75      114                  29      102        50       49         79        151
   06:15                 39       91        62       46     101      137                  34       95        57       59         91        154
   06:30                 37      100        54       40      91      140                  36       96        65       55        101        151
   06:45                 43       64        95       52     138      116                  33       61        97       43        130        104
   07:00                 53       63        73       26     126       89                  40       48        81       42        121         90
   07:15                 51       56        70       35     121       91                  47       63        75       52        122        115
   07:30                 66       54        88       37     154       91                  52       54      108        33        160         87
   07:45                 70       46        87       33     157       79                  70       48        98       44        168         92
   08:00                 61       32        77       32     138       64                  78       47        75       37        153         84
   08:15                 60       33        91       25     151       58                  56       44        95       29        151         73
   08:30                 57       36        63       17     120       53                  73       41        78       18        151         59
   08:45                 53       36        77       26     130       62                  44       25        72       22        116         47
   09:00                 46       25        66       18     112       43                  50       30        60       18        110         48
   09:15                 44       18        67       14     111       32                  48       27        55       23        103         50
   09:30                 50       15        52       16     102       31                  54       25        54       19        108         44
   09:45                 56       30        57        7     113       37                  39       22        42       17         81         39
   10:00                 54       26        47       19     101       45                  54       28        59       18        113         46
   10:15                 53       20        48       15     101       35                  49       24        51       11        100         35
   10:30                 44       11        48       13      92       24                  54       11        48       13        102         24
   10:45                 47       15        49       11      96       26                  50       14        45        8         95         22
   11:00                 51       14        39       15      90       29                  44       17        47        8         91         25
   11:15                 48       18        56       14     104       32                  46       11        50       13         96         24
   11:30                 61       12        64        9     125       21                  52        8        46        9         98         17
   11:45                 51       16        38        3      89       19                  63       10        55        5        118         15
    Total             1395      2958     1753      1925    3148     4883               1343      3059     1787      2069       3130      5128
 Day Total                 4353               3678             8031                         4402               3856                8258
 % Total             17.4%    36.8%     21.8%    24.0%                                16.3%    37.0%     21.6%    25.1%

   Peak                 07:30   04:30   07:30     05:00    07:30   04:30              07:45     04:30    07:30       03:15     07:30       04:30
    Vol.                  257     467     343       257      600     712                277       510      376         287       632         755
  P.H.F.                0.918   0.919   0.942     0.892    0.955   0.894              0.888     0.904    0.870       0.944     0.940       0.895
                                             Old Colony Planning Council                                             Page 1
                                                   70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #11                               (508) 583-1833                                                Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                             www.ocpcrpa.org                                              Site Code: 18
                                                                                                      Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                       Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                              East Spring St, at Holbrook T/L



   Start            19-Sep-11    20-Sep-11    21-Sep-11   22-Sep-11   23-Sep-11   24-Sep-11       25-Sep-11          Week
   Time                Mon          Tue         Wed          Thu         Fri         Sat             Sun            Average
     12:00 AM                *         61           47           *           *           *               *                  54
         01:00               *         29           26           *           *           *               *                  28
         02:00               *         24           19           *           *           *               *                  22
         03:00               *         19           25           *           *           *               *                  22
         04:00               *         69           70           *           *           *               *                  70
         05:00               *       208           185           *           *           *               *                 196
         06:00               *       405           401           *           *           *               *                 403
         07:00               *       558           571           *           *           *               *                 564
         08:00               *       539           571           *           *           *               *                 555
         09:00               *       438           402           *           *           *               *                 420
         10:00               *       390           410           *           *           *               *                 400
         11:00               *       408           403           *           *           *               *                 406
     12:00 PM                *       465           464           *           *           *               *                 464
         01:00               *       432           467           *           *           *               *                 450
         02:00               *       495           520           *           *           *               *                 508
         03:00               *       632           660           *           *           *               *                 646
         04:00               *       687           712           *           *           *               *                 700
         05:00               *       704           709           *           *           *               *                 706
         06:00               *       507           560           *           *           *               *                 534
         07:00               *       350           384           *           *           *               *                 367
         08:00               *       237           263           *           *           *               *                 250
         09:00               *       143           181           *           *           *               *                 162
         10:00               *       130           127           *           *           *               *                 128
         11:00               *       101            81           *           *           *               *                  91
          Total             0       8031          8258           0           0           0               0                8146
    Percentage           0.0%      98.6%       101.4%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0%            0.0%
      AM Peak                       07:00        07:00                                                                    07:00
           Vol.                      558           571                                                                     564

      PM Peak                      17:00        16:00                                                                     17:00
          Vol.                      704          712                                                                       706
                                                                         Old Colony Planning Council                                                                          Page 1
                                                                               70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U3
                                                                             Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #7                                                            508-583-1833
Tube Layout: L6 Basic                                                                                                                                                     Station ID:
                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                                              Date Start: 27-Aug-08
                                                                                                                                                               Date End: 28-Aug-08
                                                                                                                                                 E Main St (28), north of E Spring St


 Start        25-Aug-08             Tue                   Wed                    Thu                 Fri                   Sat                   Sun              Week Average
 Time        NB       SB       NB           SB       NB           SB        NB           SB     NB           SB       NB           SB       NB           SB       NB       SB
  12:00
    AM            *        *        *            *     34           90         48          83        *            *        *            *        *            *      41         86
  01:00           *        *        *            *     22           19         32          29        *            *        *            *        *            *      27         24
  02:00           *        *        *            *     17           23         17          23        *            *        *            *        *            *      17         23
  03:00           *        *        *            *     13           15         21          15        *            *        *            *        *            *      17         15
  04:00           *        *        *            *     26           17         29          11        *            *        *            *        *            *      28         14
  05:00           *        *        *            *    108           33        118          30        *            *        *            *        *            *     113         32
  06:00           *        *        *            *    324           86        302          86        *            *        *            *        *            *     313         86
  07:00           *        *        *            *    494          143        459         134        *            *        *            *        *            *     476        138
  08:00           *        *        *            *    472          211        444         229        *            *        *            *        *            *     458        220
  09:00           *        *        *            *    290          244        301         243        *            *        *            *        *            *     296        244
  10:00           *        *        *            *    273          283        283         264        *            *        *            *        *            *     278        274
  11:00           *        *        *            *    289          297        292         309        *            *        *            *        *            *     290        303
  12:00
    PM            *        *        *            *     319      326            337      344          *            *        *            *        *            *     328      335
  01:00           *        *        *            *     319      310            364      338          *            *        *            *        *            *     342      324
  02:00           *        *        *            *     351      343            347      333          *            *        *            *        *            *     349      338
  03:00           *        *        *            *     360      410            344      411          *            *        *            *        *            *     352      410
  04:00           *        *        *            *     327      447            352      491          *            *        *            *        *            *     340      469
  05:00           *        *        *            *     358      484            391      521          *            *        *            *        *            *     374      502
  06:00           *        *        *            *     308      443            338      497          *            *        *            *        *            *     323      470
  07:00           *        *        *            *     284      367            317      439          *            *        *            *        *            *     300      403
  08:00           *        *        *            *     266      303            245      290          *            *        *            *        *            *     256      296
  09:00           *        *        *            *     206      181            189      196          *            *        *            *        *            *     198      188
  10:00           *        *        *            *     156      162            152      170          *            *        *            *        *            *     154      166
  11:00           *        *        *            *      69      107             81      128          *            *        *            *        *            *      75      118
   Total          0        0        0            0    5685     5344           5803     5614          0            0        0            0        0            0    5745     5478
    Day               0                 0               11029                   11417                    0                     0                     0               11223
AM Peak                                              07:00    11:00          07:00    11:00                                                                       07:00    11:00
    Vol.                                               494      297            459      309                                                                         476      303
PM Peak                                              15:00    17:00          17:00    17:00                                                                       17:00    17:00
    Vol.                                               360      484            391      521                                                                         374      502


   Comb.
                      0                 0                 11029                  11417                   0                     0                     0                11223
    Total
                                                 Old Colony Planning Council                                                    Page 1
                                                       70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com #_U/RFC: 18_U3
                                                     Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #7                                    508-583-1833
Tube Layout: L6 Basic                                                                                                        Station ID:
                                                                                                                          Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                 Date Start: 27-Aug-08
                                                                                                                  Date End: 28-Aug-08
                                                                                                    E Main St (28), north of E Spring St


    Start         25-Aug-08     26-Aug-08     27-Aug-08     28-Aug-08     29-Aug-08     30-Aug-08        31-Aug-08          Week
    Time             Mon           Tue           Wed           Thu           Fri           Sat              Sun            Average
    12:00 AM                *             *           124           131             *             *                  *            128
        01:00               *             *            41            61             *             *                  *             51
        02:00               *             *            40            40             *             *                  *             40
        03:00               *             *            28            36             *             *                  *             32
        04:00               *             *            43            40             *             *                  *             42
        05:00               *             *           141           148             *             *                  *            144
        06:00               *             *           410           388             *             *                  *            399
        07:00               *             *           637           593             *             *                  *            615
        08:00               *             *           683           673             *             *                  *            678
        09:00               *             *           534           544             *             *                  *            539
        10:00               *             *           556           547             *             *                  *            552
        11:00               *             *           586           601             *             *                  *            594
    12:00 PM                *             *           645           681             *             *                  *            663
        01:00               *             *           629           702             *             *                  *            666
        02:00               *             *           694           680             *             *                  *            687
        03:00               *             *           770           755             *             *                  *            762
        04:00               *             *           774           843             *             *                  *            808
        05:00               *             *           842           912             *             *                  *            877
        06:00               *             *           751           835             *             *                  *            793
        07:00               *             *           651           756             *             *                  *            704
        08:00               *             *           569           535             *             *                  *            552
        09:00               *             *           387           385             *             *                  *            386
        10:00               *             *           318           322             *             *                  *            320
        11:00               *             *           176           209             *             *                  *            192
          Total            0             0         11029         11417             0             0                  0           11224
   Percentage           0.0%          0.0%         98.3%        101.7%          0.0%          0.0%               0.0%
     AM Peak                                        08:00         08:00                                                          08:00
           Vol.                                       683           673                                                           678

     PM Peak                                        17:00         17:00                                                          17:00
         Vol.                                        842           912                                                            877
                                                                Old Colony Planning Council                                                                  Page 1
                                                                      70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                                   Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #14                                                  (508) 583-1833                                                               Station ID: 6239
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                                www.ocpcrpa.org                                                                   Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                              Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                               Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                  East Main St, at Brockton City Line



 Start          19-Sep-11              Tue               Wed                Thu               Fri               Sat                Sun              Week Average
 Time          SB         NB      SB         NB      SB        NB     SB          NB    SB          NB    SB          NB    SB           NB         SB       NB
12:00 AM          *         *       7          7       3         3      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          5           5
    01:00         *         *       1          4       3         1      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          2           2
    02:00         *         *       2          1       5         2      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          4           2
    03:00         *         *       2          1       2         3      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          2           2
    04:00         *         *       3         12       4        14      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          4          13
    05:00         *         *       4         24       9        27      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          6          26
    06:00         *         *      19         61      18        68      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         18          64
    07:00         *         *      30         82      25        73      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         28          78
    08:00         *         *      32         57      33        59      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         32          58
    09:00         *         *      35         52      25        44      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         30          48
    10:00         *         *      31         38      40        43      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         36          40
    11:00         *         *      39         46      39        52      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         39          49
12:00 PM          *         *      37         51      46        45      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         42          48
    01:00         *         *      31         57      51        55      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         41          56
    02:00         *         *      33         56      39        45      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         36          50
    03:00         *         *      40         58      53        53      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         46          56
    04:00         *         *      54         55      46        61      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         50          58
    05:00         *         *      45         40      60        60      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         52          50
    06:00         *         *      41         45      55        62      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         48          54
    07:00         *         *      23         38      40        49      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         32          44
    08:00         *         *      17         23      21        30      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         19          26
    09:00         *         *      23         24      16        25      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *         20          24
    10:00         *         *      10         19       8        10      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          9          14
    11:00         *         *       5          8       5         3      *           *     *           *     *           *     *            *          5           6
     Total        0        0     564        859     646       887      0           0     0           0     0           0     0            0        606         873
       Day          0                1423               1533                0                 0                 0                  0                   1479
AM Peak                         11:00      07:00   10:00     07:00                                                                                11:00       07:00
      Vol.                         39         82      40        73                                                                                   39          78
PM Peak                         16:00      15:00   17:00     18:00                                                                                17:00       16:00
      Vol.                         54         58      60        62                                                                                   52          58


 Comb. Total            0                  1423              1533                 0                 0                 0                   0                   1479
                                                   Old Colony Planning Council                                                       Page 1
                                                         70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                      Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #14                                     (508) 583-1833                                                    Station ID: 6239
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                   www.ocpcrpa.org                                                        Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                      Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                       Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                          East Main St, at Brockton City Line



 Start     20-Sep-11         SB                 NB            Combined     21-Sep-           SB                 NB             Combined
 Time         Tue      A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.    A.M.    P.M.    Wed        A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.     A.M.    P.M.
   12:00                  3         5        2        11      5      16                   2        11        0        15       2         26
   12:15                  1        10        2        17      3      27                   0        13        0         9       0         22
   12:30                  3         7        1        10      4      17                   0        10        1         9       1         19
   12:45                  0        15        2        13      2      28                   1        12        2        12       3         24
   01:00                  0         5        1        11      1      16                   2        16        1        14       3         30
   01:15                  0         8        2        17      2      25                   0        12        0        13       0         25
   01:30                  1         6        0        15      1      21                   1        11        0        16       1         27
   01:45                  0        12        1        14      1      26                   0        12        0        12       0         24
   02:00                  2         9        0        14      2      23                   4         3        0        13       4         16
   02:15                  0        12        1        15      1      27                   0         9        2        13       2         22
   02:30                  0         5        0        12      0      17                   0        19        0        10       0         29
   02:45                  0         7        0        15      0      22                   1         8        0         9       1         17
   03:00                  0         8        0        18      0      26                   0        14        2         9       2         23
   03:15                  0        12        0         9      0      21                   0        14        1         7       1         21
   03:30                  1         8        0        17      1      25                   1        16        0        17       1         33
   03:45                  1        12        1        14      2      26                   1         9        0        20       1         29
   04:00                  1         9        2        12      3      21                   1        11        2        16       3         27
   04:15                  0        15        3        13      3      28                   0        10        4        15       4         25
   04:30                  0        17        3        15      3      32                   0        16        4        17       4         33
   04:45                  2        13        4        15      6      28                   3         9        4        13       7         22
   05:00                  1        13        5         8      6      21                   1        14        4        19       5         33
   05:15                  2        11        7        12      9      23                   3        22       10        12      13         34
   05:30                  1        12        7        10      8      22                   4        14        9        12      13         26
   05:45                  0         9        5        10      5      19                   1        10        4        17       5         27
   06:00                  2        13        9         9     11      22                   2        17        8        18      10         35
   06:15                  5        11       10         9     15      20                   6        12       10        17      16         29
   06:30                  3         8       23        14     26      22                   2        13       22        17      24         30
   06:45                  9         9       19        13     28      22                   8        13       28        10      36         23
   07:00                  7         8       20        15     27      23                   4         7        8        14      12         21
   07:15                  8         6       16         9     24      15                   5        10       24         9      29         19
   07:30                  6         4       21        12     27      16                   5        10       16        13      21         23
   07:45                  9         5       25         2     34        7                 11        13       25        13      36         26
   08:00                  3         2       19         2     22        4                  5        10       20        10      25         20
   08:15                 11         4       16        10     27      14                   7         1       15         6      22          7
   08:30                  9         4        8         8     17      12                   8         7       15         6      23         13
   08:45                  9         7       14         3     23      10                  13         3        9         8      22         11
   09:00                 10         5       13         4     23        9                  7         5       11         7      18         12
   09:15                  5         6       10         8     15      14                   5         2       10         8      15         10
   09:30                  6         8       12         7     18      15                   9         2        7         4      16          6
   09:45                 14         4       17         5     31        9                  4         7       16         6      20         13
   10:00                  9         4       12         6     21      10                  13         5        9         3      22          8
   10:15                  3         3       11         4     14        7                  1         1       15         1      16          2
   10:30                 11         0       10         4     21        4                 16         2       13         3      29          5
   10:45                  8         3        5         5     13        8                 10         0        6         3      16          3
   11:00                  9         0       10         2     19        2                  5         2       14         0      19          2
   11:15                  9         1       15         2     24        3                 13         1        9         1      22          2
   11:30                  9         2       10         2     19        4                 10         1       14         1      24          2
   11:45                 12         2       11         2     23        4                 11         1       15         1      26          2
    Total              205       359      385       474     590     833                206       440      389       498      595        938
 Day Total                  564                859             1423                         646                887              1533
 % Total             14.4%     25.2%    27.1%     33.3%                              13.4%     28.7%    25.4%     32.5%

   Peak                 08:15   04:15   07:00     01:15    07:00   04:00             10:30     05:15    07:15     05:45     07:15       04:30
    Vol.                   39      58      82        60      112     109                44        63       85        69       111         122
  P.H.F.                0.886   0.853   0.820     0.882    0.824   0.852             0.688     0.716    0.759     0.863     0.771       0.897
                                             Old Colony Planning Council                                            Page 1
                                                   70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #14                               (508) 583-1833                                         Station ID: 6239
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                             www.ocpcrpa.org                                             Site Code: 18
                                                                                                     Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                      Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                         East Main St, at Brockton City Line



   Start            19-Sep-11    20-Sep-11    21-Sep-11   22-Sep-11   23-Sep-11   24-Sep-11      25-Sep-11          Week
   Time                Mon          Tue         Wed          Thu         Fri         Sat            Sun            Average
     12:00 AM                *         14            6           *           *           *              *                  10
         01:00               *          5            4           *           *           *              *                   4
         02:00               *          3            7           *           *           *              *                   5
         03:00               *          3            5           *           *           *              *                   4
         04:00               *         15           18           *           *           *              *                  16
         05:00               *         28           36           *           *           *              *                  32
         06:00               *         80           86           *           *           *              *                  83
         07:00               *       112            98           *           *           *              *                 105
         08:00               *         89           92           *           *           *              *                  90
         09:00               *         87           69           *           *           *              *                  78
         10:00               *         69           83           *           *           *              *                  76
         11:00               *         85           91           *           *           *              *                  88
     12:00 PM                *         88           91           *           *           *              *                  90
         01:00               *         88          106           *           *           *              *                  97
         02:00               *         89           84           *           *           *              *                  86
         03:00               *         98          106           *           *           *              *                 102
         04:00               *       109           107           *           *           *              *                 108
         05:00               *         85          120           *           *           *              *                 102
         06:00               *         86          117           *           *           *              *                 102
         07:00               *         61           89           *           *           *              *                  75
         08:00               *         40           51           *           *           *              *                  46
         09:00               *         47           41           *           *           *              *                  44
         10:00               *         29           18           *           *           *              *                  24
         11:00               *         13            8           *           *           *              *                  10
          Total             0       1423          1533           0           0           0              0                1477
    Percentage           0.0%      96.3%       103.8%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0%           0.0%
      AM Peak                       07:00        07:00                                                                   07:00
           Vol.                      112            98                                                                    105

      PM Peak                      16:00        17:00                                                                    16:00
          Vol.                      109          120                                                                      108
                                                               Old Colony Planning Council                                                               Page 1
                                                                     70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U3                                                  Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #6                                                  (508) 583-1833                                                                  Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                               www.ocpcrpa.org                                                                Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                          Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                           Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                                             E Main St (28), south of E Spring St



 Start          19-Sep-11             Tue               Wed                Thu               Fri               Sat               Sun            Week Average
 Time          NB         SB      NB        SB      NB        SB     NB          SB    NB          SB    NB          SB    NB          SB       NB       SB
12:00 AM          *         *      55        62      62        65      *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *       58          64
    01:00         *         *      34        28      31        37      *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *       32          32
    02:00         *         *      34        23      26        25      *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *       30          24
    03:00         *         *      23        16      30        23      *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *       26          20
    04:00         *         *      69        70      70        66      *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *       70          68
    05:00         *         *    220       168      201      172       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     210         170
    06:00         *         *    565       364      606      364       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     586         364
    07:00         *         *    841       535      830      559       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     836         547
    08:00         *         *    720       517      733      556       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     726         536
    09:00         *         *    498       457      498      459       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     498         458
    10:00         *         *    449       421      497      461       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     473         441
    11:00         *         *    488       453      510      468       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     499         460
12:00 PM          *         *    556       511      587      552       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     572         532
    01:00         *         *    562       508      582      529       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     572         518
    02:00         *         *    640       521      593      528       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     616         524
    03:00         *         *    672       584      681      603       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     676         594
    04:00         *         *    751       577      773      609       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     762         593
    05:00         *         *    718       636      788      650       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     753         643
    06:00         *         *    583       508      644      513       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     614         510
    07:00         *         *    422       363      501      442       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     462         402
    08:00         *         *    328       268      343      278       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     336         273
    09:00         *         *    264       206      249      231       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     256         218
    10:00         *         *    174       154      159      157       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *     166         156
    11:00         *         *    103       112       93      119       *           *     *           *     *           *     *           *       98        116
     Total        0        0    9769      8062    10087     8466      0           0     0           0     0           0     0           0     9927        8263
       Day          0               17831             18553                0                 0                 0                 0                18190
AM Peak                         07:00     07:00   07:00     07:00                                                                             07:00       07:00
      Vol.                       841       535      830      559                                                                               836         547
PM Peak                         16:00     17:00   17:00     17:00                                                                             16:00       17:00
      Vol.                       751       636      788      650                                                                               762         643


 Comb. Total            0                 17831             18553                0                 0                 0                 0                  18190
                                                   Old Colony Planning Council                                                       Page 1
                                                         70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U3                                      Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #6                                      (508) 583-1833                                                          Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                   www.ocpcrpa.org                                                        Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                      Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                       Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                         E Main St (28), south of E Spring St



 Start     20-Sep-11         NB                 SB            Combined      21-Sep-          NB                 SB             Combined
 Time         Tue      A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.    A.M.     P.M.    Wed        A.M.     P.M.     A.M.      P.M.     A.M.     P.M.
   12:00                 20      134        19      125      39      259                  19     149        22      126       41        275
   12:15                 13      141        16      124      29      265                  13     130        16      142       29        272
   12:30                 11      141        19      132      30      273                  16     146        18      143       34        289
   12:45                 11      140         8      130      19      270                  14     162         9      141       23        303
   01:00                 11      129         6      127      17      256                  10     145        12      144       22        289
   01:15                  9      134         5      118      14      252                   7     150         8      134       15        284
   01:30                  7      143         9      132      16      275                   9     128        11      127       20        255
   01:45                  7      156         8      131      15      287                   5     159         6      124       11        283
   02:00                  5      145         7      139      12      284                   5     132        10      125       15        257
   02:15                  6      159         3      134       9      293                   8     147         3      125       11        272
   02:30                 16      166         7      127      23      293                   9     143         8      140       17        283
   02:45                  7      170         6      121      13      291                   4     171         4      138        8        309
   03:00                  7      162         2      133       9      295                   7     149         7      138       14        287
   03:15                  5      156         1      136       6      292                   6     180         3      147        9        327
   03:30                  3      185         5      150       8      335                   8     183         6      159       14        342
   03:45                  8      169         8      165      16      334                   9     169         7      159       16        328
   04:00                 11      180         8      145      19      325                  10     197        10      181       20        378
   04:15                 11      183        21      151      32      334                  16     184        16      131       32        315
   04:30                 26      179        20      144      46      323                  19     199        18      162       37        361
   04:45                 21      209        21      137      42      346                  25     193        22      135       47        328
   05:00                 32      168        27      159      59      327                  29     207        26      164       55        371
   05:15                 55      187        27      174      82      361                  46     195        34      185       80        380
   05:30                 62      181        59      157     121      338                  60     207        57      148      117        355
   05:45                 71      182        55      146     126      328                  66     179        55      153      121        332
   06:00               100       131        79      125     179      256                108      178        70      127      178        305
   06:15               128       160        85      114     213      274                122      167        86      141      208        308
   06:30               142       149        83      131     225      280                168      148        85      121      253        269
   06:45               195       143      117       138     312      281                208      151      123       124      331        275
   07:00               180       128      120        93     300      221                193      138      114       119      307        257
   07:15               207       108      117        87     324      195                215      128      145       118      360        246
   07:30               245        97      145        93     390      190                204      125      138       105      342        230
   07:45               209        89      153        90     362      179                218      110      162       100      380        210
   08:00               233        82      110        93     343      175                230        90     124        82      354        172
   08:15               151        68      149        63     300      131                193        96     135        70      328        166
   08:30               165        85      125        57     290      142                179        82     156        55      335        137
   08:45               171        93      133        55     304      148                131        75     141        71      272        146
   09:00               145        75      126        53     271      128                130        74     122        68      252        142
   09:15               106        70      132        69     238      139                122        57     117        50      239        107
   09:30               125        60        90       44     215      104                122        61     126        57      248        118
   09:45               122        59      109        40     231       99                124        57       94       56      218        113
   10:00               114        60        98       49     212      109                116        54     130        50      246        104
   10:15               103        48      113        53     216      101                121        44     116        47      237         91
   10:30               116        32      108        21     224       53                134        31     115        29      249         60
   10:45               116        34      102        31     218       65                126        30     100        31      226         61
   11:00               104        33      109        31     213       64                129        36     109        33      238         69
   11:15               127        28      104        35     231       63                114        17     112        35      226         52
   11:30               128        17      132        33     260       50                124        17     126        34      250         51
   11:45               129        25      108        13     237       38                143        23     121        17      264         40
    Total             3996      5773     3114      4948    7110    10721               4094     5993     3255      5211     7349      11204
 Day Total                 9769               8062             17831                       10087              8466              18553
 % Total             22.4%    32.4%     17.5%    27.7%                                22.1%    32.3%    17.5%    28.1%

   Peak                 07:15   04:00   07:30     05:00    07:15   04:45              07:15    04:45    07:45     05:00     07:15       04:30
    Vol.                  894     751     557       636     1419   1372                 867      802      577       650     1436        1440
  P.H.F.                0.912   0.898   0.910     0.914    0.910   0.950              0.942    0.969    0.890     0.878     0.945       0.947
                                                 Old Colony Planning Council                                            Page 1
                                                       70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U3                                    Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #6                                    (508) 583-1833                                               Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                 www.ocpcrpa.org                                             Site Code: 18
                                                                                                         Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                          Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                            E Main St (28), south of E Spring St



   Start                19-Sep-11    20-Sep-11    21-Sep-11   22-Sep-11   23-Sep-11   24-Sep-11      25-Sep-11          Week
   Time                    Mon          Tue          Wed         Thu         Fri         Sat            Sun            Average
     12:00 AM                    *        117          127           *           *           *              *                 122
         01:00                   *         62           68           *           *           *              *                  65
         02:00                   *         57           51           *           *           *              *                  54
         03:00                   *         39           53           *           *           *              *                  46
         04:00                   *        139          136           *           *           *              *                 138
         05:00                   *        388          373           *           *           *              *                 380
         06:00                   *        929          970           *           *           *              *                 950
         07:00                   *       1376         1389           *           *           *              *                1382
         08:00                   *       1237         1289           *           *           *              *                1263
         09:00                   *        955          957           *           *           *              *                 956
         10:00                   *        870          958           *           *           *              *                 914
         11:00                   *        941          978           *           *           *              *                 960
     12:00 PM                    *       1067         1139           *           *           *              *                1103
         01:00                   *       1070         1111           *           *           *              *                1090
         02:00                   *       1161         1121           *           *           *              *                1141
         03:00                   *       1256         1284           *           *           *              *                1270
         04:00                   *      1328          1382           *           *           *              *                1355
         05:00                   *      1354          1438           *           *           *              *                1396
         06:00                   *      1091          1157           *           *           *              *                1124
         07:00                   *        785          943           *           *           *              *                 864
         08:00                   *        596          621           *           *           *              *                 608
         09:00                   *        470          480           *           *           *              *                 475
         10:00                   *        328          316           *           *           *              *                 322
         11:00                   *        215          212           *           *           *              *                 214
          Total                 0      17831        18553            0           0           0              0               18192
    Percentage               0.0%      98.0%       102.0%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0%           0.0%
      AM Peak                           07:00        07:00                                                                   07:00
           Vol.                         1376          1389                                                                   1382

      PM Peak                          17:00        17:00                                                                    17:00
          Vol.                          1354         1438                                                                    1396
                                                               Old Colony Planning Council                                                                 Page 1
                                                                     70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                                  Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #7                                                  (508) 583-1833                                                                    Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                               www.ocpcrpa.org                                                                  Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                                            Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                                             Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                                           East Main St(28),north of East Spring St



 Start          19-Sep-11             Tue               Wed                Thu               Fri               Sat                Sun             Week Average
 Time          NB         SB      NB        SB      NB        SB     NB          SB    NB          SB    NB          SB     NB          SB        NB       SB
12:00 AM          *         *      24        41      27        44      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        26          42
    01:00         *         *      18        26      20        24      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        19          25
    02:00         *         *      19        19      15        16      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        17          18
    03:00         *         *      15        11      17        13      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        16          12
    04:00         *         *      51        22      47        23      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        49          22
    05:00         *         *    162         37    157         48      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      160           42
    06:00         *         *    436       111     517       104       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      476         108
    07:00         *         *    657       231     710       250       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      684         240
    08:00         *         *    508       230     534       247       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      521         238
    09:00         *         *    327       252     343       278       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      335         265
    10:00         *         *    274       272     314       294       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      294         283
    11:00         *         *    333       305     322       301       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      328         303
12:00 PM          *         *    334       352     398       342       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      366         347
    01:00         *         *    363       329     361       362       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      362         346
    02:00         *         *    385       353     354       371       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      370         362
    03:00         *         *    335       431     349       403       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      342         417
    04:00         *         *    369       407     361       420       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      365         414
    05:00         *         *    352       437     384       462       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      368         450
    06:00         *         *    302       351     329       347       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      316         349
    07:00         *         *    227       245     297       270       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      262         258
    08:00         *         *    194       184     203       194       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      198         189
    09:00         *         *    181       164     150       161       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *      166         162
    10:00         *         *      96      100       84      112       *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        90        106
    11:00         *         *      47        79      47        93      *           *     *           *     *           *      *           *        47          86
     Total        0        0    6009      4989    6340      5179      0           0     0           0     0           0      0           0      6177        5084
       Day          0               10998             11519                0                 0                 0                  0                 11261
AM Peak                         07:00     11:00   07:00     11:00                                                                               07:00       11:00
      Vol.                       657       305     710       301                                                                                 684         303
PM Peak                         14:00     17:00   12:00     17:00                                                                               14:00       17:00
      Vol.                       385       437     398       462                                                                                 370         450


 Comb. Total            0                 10998             11519                0                 0                 0                  0                   11261
                                                   Old Colony Planning Council                                                           Page 1
                                                         70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                      Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #7                                      (508) 583-1833                                                              Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                   www.ocpcrpa.org                                                            Site Code: 18
                                                                                                                          Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                                           Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                                         East Main St(28),north of East Spring St



 Start     20-Sep-11         NB                 SB            Combined      21-Sep-           NB                   SB              Combined
 Time         Tue      A.M.      P.M.     A.M.      P.M.    A.M.     P.M.    Wed        A.M.      P.M.       A.M.      P.M.      A.M.     P.M.
   12:00                  7       72        13       84      20      156                  10       98          16       81        26        179
   12:15                  5       91         7       96      12      187                   4       92           9       82        13        174
   12:30                  5       93        16       77      21      170                   9      107          15      102        24        209
   12:45                  7       78         5       95      12      173                   4      101           4       77         8        178
   01:00                  5       83         6       84      11      167                   8       85           5       89        13        174
   01:15                  5       84         6       72      11      156                   6       96           6       98        12        194
   01:30                  4      105         7       88      11      193                   3       88           8       82        11        170
   01:45                  4       91         7       85      11      176                   3       92           5       93         8        185
   02:00                  3       93         4       89       7      182                   3       78           9       86        12        164
   02:15                  3      101         5      101       8      202                   2       74           2      112         4        186
   02:30                  9       99         5       81      14      180                   6       91           4       98        10        189
   02:45                  4       92         5       82       9      174                   4      111           1       75         5        186
   03:00                  4       90         0       97       4      187                   5       83           4       99         9        182
   03:15                  3       83         1       98       4      181                   4       92           2      115         6        207
   03:30                  3       86         4      118       7      204                   5       85           1       92         6        177
   03:45                  5       76         6      118      11      194                   3       89           6       97         9        186
   04:00                  5       84         3      113       8      197                   5       97           3      116         8        213
   04:15                  8       90         7       97      15      187                  11       93           4       91        15        184
   04:30                 24       93         7      102      31      195                  15       90           7      121        22        211
   04:45                 14      102         5       95      19      197                  16       81           9       92        25        173
   05:00                 18       79         6      113      24      192                  15      116           9      107        24        223
   05:15                 37       87         3      118      40      205                  37       81           8      139        45        220
   05:30                 45       96        16       94      61      190                  51       99          15      106        66        205
   05:45                 62       90        12      112      74      202                  54       88          16      110        70        198
   06:00                 70       78        27       86      97      164                  81       81          22       85       103        166
   06:15               102        70        25       70     127      140                100        77          29       93       129        170
   06:30               113        76        23       99     136      175                147        83          24       89       171        172
   06:45               151        78        36       96     187      174                189        88          29       80       218        168
   07:00               139        64        40       72     179      136                166       100          49       89       215        189
   07:15               182        55        59       55     241      110                171        67          66       57       237        124
   07:30               184        55        66       56     250      111                195        72          71       70       266        142
   07:45               152        53        66       62     218      115                178        58          64       54       242        112
   08:00               185        48        44       53     229      101                182        54          51       57       233        111
   08:15                 95       38        54       46     149       84                149        52          48       43       197         95
   08:30               106        54        66       50     172      104                113        45          75       47       188         92
   08:45               122        54        66       35     188       89                  90       52          73       47       163         99
   09:00               111        52        73       43     184       95                  98       41          67       46       165         87
   09:15                 75       52        67       53     142      105                  73       37          80       33       153         70
   09:30                 70       46        53       33     123       79                  80       34          75       43       155         77
   09:45                 71       31        59       35     130       66                  92       38          56       39       148         77
   10:00                 73       26        66       31     139       57                  76       27          83       36       159         63
   10:15                 73       32        72       39     145       71                  76       18          72       33       148         51
   10:30                 65       19        72       13     137       32                  78       21          76       19       154         40
   10:45                 63       19        62       17     125       36                  84       18          63       24       147         42
   11:00                 57       20        78       16     135       36                  88       20          68       27       156         47
   11:15                 99        9        77       26     176       35                  70        5          76       25       146         30
   11:30                 76        8        73       24     149       32                  83       10          89       27       172         37
   11:45               101        10        77       13     178       23                  81       12          68       14       149         26
    Total             2824      3185     1557      3432    4381     6617               3023      3317       1642      3537      4665       6854
 Day Total                 6009               4989             10998                        6340                 5179               11519
 % Total             25.7%    29.0%     14.2%    31.2%                                26.2%    28.8%       14.3%    30.7%

   Peak                 07:15   01:30   11:00     03:15    07:15   04:30              07:15     12:00       11:00     05:00     07:15       05:00
    Vol.                  703     390     305       447      938     789                726       398         301       462       978         846
  P.H.F.                0.950   0.929   0.978     0.947    0.938   0.962              0.931     0.930       0.846     0.831     0.919       0.948
                                                 Old Colony Planning Council                                            Page 1
                                                       70 School Street
Community: Avon
Com#_UR/FC: 18_U5                                    Brockton, MA 02301
Recorder #: Jamar #7                                    (508) 583-1833                                               Station ID:
Layout: L6 Basic (2')                                 www.ocpcrpa.org                                             Site Code: 18
                                                                                                         Date Start: 20-Sep-11
                                                                                                          Date End: 21-Sep-11
                                                                                        East Main St(28),north of East Spring St



   Start                19-Sep-11    20-Sep-11    21-Sep-11   22-Sep-11   23-Sep-11   24-Sep-11      25-Sep-11          Week
   Time                    Mon          Tue         Wed          Thu         Fri         Sat            Sun            Average
     12:00 AM                    *         65           71           *           *           *              *                  68
         01:00                   *         44           44           *           *           *              *                  44
         02:00                   *         38           31           *           *           *              *                  34
         03:00                   *         26           30           *           *           *              *                  28
         04:00                   *         73           70           *           *           *              *                  72
         05:00                   *       199          205            *           *           *              *                 202
         06:00                   *       547          621            *           *           *              *                 584
         07:00                   *       888          960            *           *           *              *                 924
         08:00                   *       738          781            *           *           *              *                 760
         09:00                   *       579          621            *           *           *              *                 600
         10:00                   *       546          608            *           *           *              *                 577
         11:00                   *       638          623            *           *           *              *                 630
     12:00 PM                    *       686          740            *           *           *              *                 713
         01:00                   *       692          723            *           *           *              *                 708
         02:00                   *       738          725            *           *           *              *                 732
         03:00                   *       766          752            *           *           *              *                 759
         04:00                   *       776          781            *           *           *              *                 778
         05:00                   *       789          846            *           *           *              *                 818
         06:00                   *       653          676            *           *           *              *                 664
         07:00                   *       472          567            *           *           *              *                 520
         08:00                   *       378          397            *           *           *              *                 388
         09:00                   *       345          311            *           *           *              *                 328
         10:00                   *       196          196            *           *           *              *                 196
         11:00                   *       126          140            *           *           *              *                 133
          Total                 0      10998        11519            0           0           0              0               11260
    Percentage               0.0%      97.7%       102.3%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0%           0.0%
      AM Peak                           07:00        07:00                                                                   07:00
           Vol.                          888          960                                                                     924

      PM Peak                          17:00        17:00                                                                    17:00
          Vol.                          789          846                                                                      818
                                                                      Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                           70 School Street

                                                                          Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                             508-583-1833

                                                                                 www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                       File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & West Main_PM
Weather: Rain                                                                                                         Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                                        Start Date   : 9/22/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                       Page No      :1

                                                                      Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                               East Main Street (Route 28)                     East Main Street (Route 28)                           West Main Street
                                      Southbound                                      Northbound                                        Eastbound
          Start Time      Thru       Right       Peds    App. Total       Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total         Left      Right     Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
              Factor       1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0         1.0        1.0                        1.0        1.0       1.0
           04:00 PM        133          99          0          232           1          78          0           79           90          10         0         100         411
           04:15 PM        120        110           0          230           3          93          0           96           85           4         0          89         415
           04:30 PM        114        122           1          237           0          93          0           93           87           8         0          95         425
           04:45 PM        131        107           0          238           1          94          0           95           84           3         0          87         420
                Total      498        438           1          937           5        358           0          363          346          25         0         371        1671

           05:00 PM       130         121          0           251           2         96          0            98           94          7         0          101         450
           05:15 PM       179         136          0           315           1         90          0            91           96          4         0          100         506
           05:30 PM       154         124          0           278           8         92          0           100           88          4         0           92         470
           05:45 PM       124         102          0           226           3         73          0            76           81          4         0           85         387
               Total      587         483          0          1070          14        351          0           365          359         19         0          378        1813

       Grand Total       1085         921          1          2007          19         709         0           728          705         44         0          749        3484
         Apprch %        54.1        45.9          0                       2.6        97.4         0                       94.1        5.9         0
           Total %       31.1        26.4          0          57.6         0.5        20.4         0          20.9         20.2        1.3         0         21.5
    FHWA Class 1-3       1070         896          1          1967          19         685         0          704           687         44         0          731        3402
  % FHWA Class 1-3       98.6        97.3        100            98         100        96.6         0          96.7         97.4        100         0         97.6        97.6
     FHWA Class 4           1           9          0            10           0           5         0             5            6          0         0            6          21
   % FHWA Class 4         0.1           1          0           0.5           0         0.7         0           0.7          0.9          0         0          0.8         0.6
   FHWA Class 5-13         14          16          0            30           0          19         0            19           12          0         0           12          61
 % FHWA Class 5-13        1.3         1.7          0           1.5           0         2.7         0           2.6          1.7          0         0          1.6         1.8
                                                                      Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                           70 School Street

                                                                          Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                             508-583-1833

                                                                            www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                         File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & West Main_PM
Weather: Rain                                                                                           Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                          Start Date   : 9/22/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                         Page No      :2

                                                                          East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                           Out        In      Total
                                                                           1372      1967      3339
                                                                              11        10        21
                                                                              31        30        61
                                                                           1414      2007      3421


                                                                               896 1070    1
                                                                                 9     1   0
                                                                                16   14    0
                                                                               921 1085    1
                                                                             Right Thru Peds
                                                    15
                                                    28
                                                 1646


                                                 1689
                                                 Total




                                                              6
                                                           12
                                                          687


                                                          705
                                                         Left
                                West Main Street




                                                                                   North
                                                                            9/22/2011 04:00 PM
                                           6
                                          12
                                        731


                                        749



                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                 44


                                                                 44
                                                         Peds Right
                                        In




                                                                            9/22/2011 05:45 PM

                                                                            FHWA Class 1-3
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0




                                                                            FHWA Class 4
                                  9
                                16
                               915


                               940
                              Out




                                                                            FHWA Class 5-13




                                                                             Left   Thru Peds
                                                                               19    685    0
                                                                                  0     5   0
                                                                                  0   19    0
                                                                               19    709    0


                                                                           1114        704     1818
                                                                               1         5         6
                                                                              14        19        33
                                                                           1129        728     1857
                                                                           Out        In      Total
                                                                          East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                             Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                  70 School Street

                                                                                 Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                    508-583-1833

                                                                                     www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                              File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & West Main_PM
Weather: Rain                                                                                                                Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (6) / BH                                                                                               Start Date   : 9/22/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                              Page No      :4



                                     East Main Street (Route 28)                      East Main Street (Route 28)                           West Main Street
                                            Southbound                                       Northbound                                        Eastbound
           Start Time          Thru        Right       Peds    App. Total        Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total         Left      Right     Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
            04:45 PM            131          107           0          238            1           94       0            95           84            3        0          87         420
            05:00 PM            130          121           0          251            2          96        0            98           94            7        0         101         450
            05:15 PM            179          136           0          315            1           90       0            91           96            4        0         100         506
            05:30 PM            154          124           0          278            8           92       0           100           88            4        0          92         470
        Total Volume            594          488           0        1082           12          372        0           384          362          18         0         380        1846
        % App. Total           54.9         45.1           0                       3.1        96.9        0                       95.3          4.7        0
                  PHF          .830         .897        .000         .859        .375         .969     .000          .960         .943        .643      .000        .941         .912
     FHWA Class 1-3             587          474           0        1061           12          360        0           372          354          18         0         372        1805
   % FHWA Class 1-3            98.8         97.1           0         98.1         100         96.8        0          96.9         97.8         100         0        97.9         97.8
       FHWA Class 4                1            5          0             6           0            1       0              1            1           0        0            1            8
     % FHWA Class 4              0.2          1.0          0           0.6           0          0.3       0            0.3          0.3           0        0          0.3          0.4
    FHWA Class 5-13                6            9          0           15            0          11        0            11             7           0        0            7          33
  % FHWA Class 5-13              1.0          1.8          0           1.4           0          3.0       0            2.9          1.9           0        0          1.8          1.8

                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                    714      1061      1775
                                                                                       2         6         8
                                                                                     18         15       33
                                                                                    734      1082      1816


                                                                                           474  587    0
                                                                                             5     1   0
                                                                                             9     6   0
                                                                                           488  594    0
                                                                                         Right Thru Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                       858


                                                       880
                                                         16
                                                          6
                                                      Total




                                                               354


                                                               362
                                                                  1
                                                                  7

                                                              Left
                                     West Main Street




                                                                                            North
                                             372


                                             380
                                               1
                                               7




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                      18


                                                                      18
                                                                       0
                                                                       0

                                                              Peds Right
                                            In




                                                                                 FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                 FHWA Class 4
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                 0
                                    486


                                    500
                                       5
                                       9




                                                                                 FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                         Left Thru Peds
                                                                                           12  360    0
                                                                                             0    1   0
                                                                                             0  11    0
                                                                                           12  372    0


                                                                                    605        372      977
                                                                                       1         1         2
                                                                                       6        11       17
                                                                                    612        384      996
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                     Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                          70 School Street

                                                                         Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                            508-583-1833

                                                                                www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                      File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & West Main_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                       Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / KM                                                                                       Start Date   : 9/21/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                      Page No      :1

                                                                     Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                              East Main Street (Route 28)                     East Main Street (Route 28)                           West Main Street
                                     Southbound                                      Northbound                                        Eastbound
          Start Time     Thru       Right       Peds    App. Total       Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total         Left      Right     Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
              Factor      1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0         1.0        1.0                        1.0        1.0       1.0
           07:00 AM        48          62          0          110           0        167           0          167           85           0         0          85         362
           07:15 AM        67          84          0          151           2        182           0          184           79           1         1          81         416
           07:30 AM        63          83          0          146           0        196           0          196           83           4         0          87         429
           07:45 AM        46          62          0          108           1        170           0          171           94           0         0          94         373
                Total     224        291           0          515           3        715           0          718          341           5         1         347        1580

           08:00 AM        43         80          0           123           4        170          0           174           88          0         1           89         386
           08:15 AM        50         70          0           120           2        125          0           127           73          0         1           74         321
           08:30 AM        64         58          0           122           4        108          0           112           63          4         1           68         302
           08:45 AM        73         72          0           145           0         77          0            77           77          2         0           79         301
               Total      230        280          0           510          10        480          0           490          301          6         3          310        1310

       Grand Total        454        571          0          1025          13       1195          0          1208          642         11          4         657        2890
         Apprch %         44.3      55.7          0                       1.1       98.9          0                       97.7        1.7        0.6
           Total %        15.7      19.8          0          35.5         0.4       41.3          0          41.8         22.2        0.4        0.1        22.7
    FHWA Class 1-3        442        553          0           995          13       1152          0          1165          621         11          0         632        2792
  % FHWA Class 1-3        97.4      96.8          0          97.1         100       96.4          0          96.4         96.7        100          0        96.2        96.6
     FHWA Class 4            1         9          0            10           0          6          0             6            9          0          1          10          26
   % FHWA Class 4          0.2       1.6          0             1           0        0.5          0           0.5          1.4          0         25         1.5         0.9
   FHWA Class 5-13          11         9          0            20           0         37          0            37           12          0          3          15          72
 % FHWA Class 5-13         2.4       1.6          0             2           0        3.1          0           3.1          1.9          0         75         2.3         2.5
                                                                      Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                           70 School Street

                                                                          Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                             508-583-1833

                                                                            www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                         File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & West Main_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                          Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / KM                                                                          Start Date   : 9/21/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                         Page No      :2

                                                                          East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                           Out        In      Total
                                                                           1773        995     2768
                                                                              15        10        25
                                                                              49        20        69
                                                                           1837      1025      2862


                                                                               553  442    0
                                                                                 9     1   0
                                                                                 9   11    0
                                                                               571  454    0
                                                                             Right Thru Peds
                                                    19
                                                    24
                                                 1198


                                                 1241
                                                 Total




                                                              9
                                                           12
                                                          621


                                                          642
                                                         Left
                                West Main Street




                                                                                   North
                                                                            9/21/2011 07:00 AM
                                          10
                                          15
                                        632


                                        657



                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                 11


                                                                 11
                                                         Peds Right
                                        In




                                                                            9/21/2011 08:45 AM

                                                                            FHWA Class 1-3
                                                            0
                                                            1
                                                            3
                                                            4




                                                                            FHWA Class 4
                                  9
                                  9
                               566


                               584
                              Out




                                                                            FHWA Class 5-13




                                                                             Left   Thru Peds
                                                                               13 1152      0
                                                                                  0     6   0
                                                                                  0   37    0
                                                                               13 1195      0


                                                                            453      1165      1618
                                                                               1         6         7
                                                                              11        37        48
                                                                            465      1208      1673
                                                                           Out        In      Total
                                                                          East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                             Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                  70 School Street

                                                                                 Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                    508-583-1833

                                                                                        www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                              File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & West Main_AM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                               Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / KM                                                                                               Start Date   : 9/21/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                              Page No      :4



                                     East Main Street (Route 28)                      East Main Street (Route 28)                           West Main Street
                                            Southbound                                       Northbound                                        Eastbound
           Start Time          Thru        Right       Peds    App. Total        Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total         Left      Right     Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
            07:15 AM             67           84           0          151           2         182         0           184           79            1         1          81         416
            07:30 AM             63           83           0          146           0         196         0           196           83            4         0          87         429
            07:45 AM             46           62           0          108           1         170         0           171           94            0         0          94         373
            08:00 AM             43           80           0          123           4         170         0           174           88            0         1          89         386
        Total Volume            219          309           0          528           7         718         0           725          344            5         2         351        1604
        % App. Total           41.5         58.5           0                        1           99        0                         98          1.4       0.6
                  PHF          .817         .920        .000         .874        .438        .916      .000          .925         .915        .313      .500         .934         .935
     FHWA Class 1-3             214          301           0          515           7         695         0           702          333            5         0         338        1555
   % FHWA Class 1-3            97.7         97.4           0        97.5          100        96.8         0          96.8         96.8         100          0        96.3         96.9
       FHWA Class 4                0            4          0             4          0            2        0              2            6           0         1            7          13
     % FHWA Class 4                0          1.3          0           0.8          0          0.3        0            0.3          1.7           0     50.0           2.0          0.8
    FHWA Class 5-13                5            4          0             9          0          21         0            21             5           0         1            6          36
  % FHWA Class 5-13              2.3          1.3          0           1.7          0          2.9        0            2.9          1.5           0     50.0           1.7          2.2

                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                   1028        515     1543
                                                                                       8         4       12
                                                                                     26          9       35
                                                                                   1062        528     1590


                                                                                          301  214    0
                                                                                            4     0   0
                                                                                            4     5   0
                                                                                          309  219    0
                                                                                        Right Thru Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                         11
                                                         10
                                                       646


                                                       667
                                                      Total




                                                               333


                                                               344
                                                                  6
                                                                  5

                                                              Left
                                     West Main Street




                                                                                            North
                                               7
                                               6
                                             338


                                             351




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                       5
                                                                       0
                                                                       0
                                                                       5
                                                              Peds Right
                                            In




                                                                                 FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                 FHWA Class 4
                                                                 0
                                                                 1
                                                                 1
                                                                 2
                                    308


                                    316
                                       4
                                       4




                                                                                 FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                        Left Thru Peds
                                                                                            7 695    0
                                                                                            0    2   0
                                                                                            0  21    0
                                                                                            7 718    0


                                                                                    219        702      921
                                                                                       0         2         2
                                                                                       5        21       26
                                                                                    224        725      949
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                     Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                          70 School Street

                                                                         Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                            508-583-1833

                                                                                www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                          File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & Harrison Boulevard_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                           Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / BH, Jcal                                                                     Start Date   : 10/6/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                          Page No      :1

                                                                     Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                              East Main Street (Route 28)                     East Main Street (Route 28)                       Harrison Boulevard
                                     Southbound                                      Northbound                                     Eastbound
          Start Time     Thru       Right       Peds    App. Total       Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total       Left     Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
              Factor      1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0       1.0       1.0
           04:00 PM       104          54          0          158        118           72          0          190         70       114          0          184         532
           04:15 PM       104          52          0          156        113           82          0          195        114         87         3          204         555
           04:30 PM        96          70          0          166          84          85          0          169         98         87         0          185         520
           04:45 PM       134          69          0          203          86          81          0          167         96         90         1          187         557
                Total     438        245           0          683        401         320           0          721        378       378          4          760        2164

           05:00 PM       134           55        0           189          70         91          0           161        111        90         0           201         551
           05:15 PM       131           66        0           197          96         90          0           186        105       110         0           215         598
           05:30 PM       128           55        0           183          77         85          0           162        106        77         1           184         529
           05:45 PM       105           64        0           169          81         91          0           172         94       108         0           202         543
               Total      498          240        0           738         324        357          0           681        416       385         1           802        2221

       Grand Total        936           485       0          1421         725         677         0          1402        794       763          5         1562        4385
         Apprch %         65.9         34.1       0                      51.7        48.3         0                     50.8      48.8        0.3
           Total %        21.3         11.1       0          32.4        16.5        15.4         0            32       18.1      17.4        0.1         35.6
    FHWA Class 1-3        911           467       0          1378         682         649         0          1331        754       726          0         1480        4189
  % FHWA Class 1-3        97.3         96.3       0            97        94.1        95.9         0          94.9         95      95.2          0         94.8        95.5
     FHWA Class 4            0            0       0             0           4           5         0             9          1         0          2            3          12
   % FHWA Class 4            0            0       0             0         0.6         0.7         0           0.6        0.1         0         40          0.2         0.3
   FHWA Class 5-13          25           18       0            43          39          23         0            62         39        37          3           79         184
 % FHWA Class 5-13         2.7          3.7       0             3         5.4         3.4         0           4.4        4.9       4.8         60          5.1         4.2
                                                                     Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                          70 School Street

                                                                         Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                            508-583-1833

                                                                           www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                        File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & Harrison Boulevard_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                         Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / BH, Jcal                                                                   Start Date   : 10/6/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                        Page No      :2

                                                                         East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                          Out        In      Total
                                                                          1403      1378      2781
                                                                              6         0         6
                                                                             62        43      105
                                                                          1471      1421      2892


                                                                              467  911    0
                                                                                0     0   0
                                                                               18   25    0
                                                                              485  936    0
                                                                            Right Thru Peds
                                                    7
                                                  136
                                                 2629


                                                 2772
                                                Total




                                                             1
                                                          39
                                                         754


                                                         794
                                                        Left
                              Harrison Boulevard




                                                                                  North
                                                                           10/6/2011 04:00 PM
                                           3
                                          79
                                       1480


                                       1562



                                                                 0
                                                                37
                                                               726


                                                               763
                                                        Peds Right
                                        In




                                                                           10/6/2011 05:45 PM

                                                                           FHWA Class 1-3
                                                           0
                                                           2
                                                           3
                                                           5




                                                                           FHWA Class 4
                                 4
                               57
                             1149


                             1210
                             Out




                                                                           FHWA Class 5-13




                                                                            Left   Thru Peds
                                                                             682    649    0
                                                                                 4     5   0
                                                                              39     23    0
                                                                             725    677    0


                                                                          1637      1331      2968
                                                                              0         9         9
                                                                             62        62      124
                                                                          1699      1402      3101
                                                                          Out        In      Total
                                                                         East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                             Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                  70 School Street

                                                                                 Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                    508-583-1833

                                                                                     www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                 File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & Harrison Boulevard_PM
Weather: Clear                                                                                                  Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / BH, Jcal                                                                            Start Date   : 10/6/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                 Page No      :4



                                     East Main Street (Route 28)                      East Main Street (Route 28)                      Harrison Boulevard
                                            Southbound                                       Northbound                                    Eastbound
           Start Time          Thru        Right       Peds    App. Total        Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total      Left     Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
            04:45 PM            134           69           0          203          86          81         0           167        96        90           1         187         557
            05:00 PM            134           55           0          189          70          91         0           161       111        90           0         201         551
            05:15 PM            131           66           0          197          96          90         0           186       105       110           0         215         598
            05:30 PM            128           55           0          183          77          85         0           162       106        77           1         184         529
        Total Volume            527          245           0          772         329         347         0           676       418       367           2         787        2235
        % App. Total           68.3         31.7           0                     48.7        51.3         0                    53.1      46.6         0.3
                  PHF          .983         .888        .000         .951        .857        .953      .000          .909      .941      .834       .500         .915         .934
     FHWA Class 1-3             515          236           0          751         316         339         0           655       398       357           0         755        2161
   % FHWA Class 1-3            97.7         96.3           0        97.3         96.0        97.7         0
         96.9      95.2      97.3           0        95.9         96.7
       FHWA Class 4                0            0          0             0           3           1        0
             4         1         0          2            3            7
     % FHWA Class 4                0            0          0             0         0.9         0.3        0            0.6       0.2         0       100           0.4          0.3
    FHWA Class 5-13              12             9          0           21          10            7        0            17        19        10           0          29           67
  % FHWA Class 5-13              2.3          3.7          0           2.7         3.0         2.0        0            2.5       4.5       2.7          0          3.7          3.0

                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                    737        751     1488
                                                                                       2         0         2
                                                                                     26         21       47
                                                                                    765        772     1537


                                                                                       236  515    0
                                                                                         0     0   0
                                                                                         9   12    0
                                                                                       245  527    0
                                                                                     Right Thru Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                      1307


                                                      1361
                                                        48
                                                         6
                                                     Total




                                                              398


                                                              418
                                                               19
                                                                 1
                                    Harrison Boulevard




                                                             Left




                                                                                            North
                                                29
                                                 3
                                               755


                                               787




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                    357


                                                                    367
                                                                     10
                                                                      0


                                                             Peds Right
                                              In




                                                                                 FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                 FHWA Class 4
                                                                0
                                                                2
                                                                0
                                                                2
                                    552


                                    574
                                     19
                                       3




                                                                                 FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                         Left Thru Peds
                                                                                          316  339    0
                                                                                             3    1   0
                                                                                           10     7   0
                                                                                          329  347    0


                                                                                    872        655     1527
                                                                                       0         4         4
                                                                                     22         17       39
                                                                                    894        676     1570
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                    Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                         70 School Street

                                                                        Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                           508-583-1833

                                                                               www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                         File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & Harrison Boulevard_AM
Weather: Light Rain                                                                                     Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / KM, EA                                                                      Start Date   : 9/22/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                         Page No      :1

                                                                    Groups Printed- 3 - FHWA Class 4 - 13
                             East Main Street (Route 28)                     East Main Street (Route 28)                       Harrison Boulevard
                                    Southbound                                      Northbound                                     Eastbound
          Start Time    Thru       Right       Peds    App. Total       Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total       Left     Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
              Factor     1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0         1.0        1.0                      1.0       1.0       1.0
           07:00 AM       31          53          0           84          81        117           0          198         58         48         0          106         388
           07:15 AM       58          67          0          125          99        121           0          220         94         54         0          148         493
           07:30 AM       69          71          0          140        109         140           0          249         92         55         0          147         536
           07:45 AM       59          81          0          140        102         123           0          225         86         57         2          145         510
                Total    217        272           0          489        391         501           0          892        330       214          2          546        1927

          08:00 AM        50          73         0           123         103        128          0           231         67        62         1           130         484
          08:15 AM        53          82         0           135          79        108          0           187         78        55         0           133         455
          08:30 AM        63          57         0           120         102         91          0           193         60        46         0           106         419
          08:45 AM        93          56         0           149          72         87          0           159         39        65         0           104         412
              Total      259         268         0           527         356        414          0           770        244       228         1           473        1770

       Grand Total       476          540        0          1016         747         915         0          1662        574       442         3          1019        3697
         Apprch %        46.9        53.1        0                      44.9        55.1         0                     56.3      43.4       0.3
           Total %       12.9        14.6        0          27.5        20.2        24.7         0            45       15.5        12       0.1          27.6
    FHWA Class 1-3       450          498        0           948         664         889         0          1553        523       377         0           900        3401
  % FHWA Class 1-3       94.5        92.2        0          93.3        88.9        97.2         0          93.4       91.1      85.3         0          88.3          92
     FHWA Class 4           7           0        0             7           9           8         0            17          4         2         3             9          33
   % FHWA Class 4         1.5           0        0           0.7         1.2         0.9         0             1        0.7       0.5       100           0.9         0.9
   FHWA Class 5-13         19          42        0            61          74          18         0            92         47        63         0           110         263
 % FHWA Class 5-13          4         7.8        0             6         9.9           2         0           5.5        8.2      14.3         0          10.8         7.1
                                                                    Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                         70 School Street

                                                                        Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                           508-583-1833

                                                                          www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                       File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & Harrison Boulevard_AM
Weather: Light Rain                                                                                   Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / KM, EA                                                                    Start Date   : 9/22/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                       Page No      :2

                                                                        East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                         Out        In      Total
                                                                         1412        948     2360
                                                                            12         7        19
                                                                            65        61      126
                                                                         1489      1016      2505


                                                                             498  450    0
                                                                               0     7   0
                                                                              42   19    0
                                                                             540  476    0
                                                                           Right Thru Peds
                                                  18
                                                 226
                                                2062


                                                2306
                                               Total




                                                            4
                                                         47
                                                        523


                                                        574
                                                       Left
                             Harrison Boulevard




                                                                                 North
                                                                          9/22/2011 07:00 AM
                                          9
                                       900

                                       110
                                      1019



                                                                2
                                                               63
                                                              377


                                                              442
                                                       Peds Right
                                       In




                                                                          9/22/2011 08:45 AM

                                                                          FHWA Class 1-3
                                                          0
                                                          3
                                                          0
                                                          3




                                                                          FHWA Class 4
                                9
                             116
                            1162


                            1287
                            Out




                                                                          FHWA Class 5-13




                                                                           Left   Thru Peds
                                                                            664    889    0
                                                                                9     8   0
                                                                             74     18    0
                                                                            747    915    0


                                                                          827      1553      2380
                                                                             9        17        26
                                                                            82        92      174
                                                                          918      1662      2580
                                                                         Out        In      Total
                                                                        East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                             Old Colony Planning Council

                                                                                  70 School Street

                                                                                 Brockton, MA 02301

                                                                                    508-583-1833

                                                                                     www.ocpcrpa.org



Community: Avon                                                                                                 File Name    : East Main Street(Route 28) & Harrison Boulevard_AM
Weather: Light Rain                                                                                             Site Code    : 18
Board #/Staff: DB-400 (5) / KM, EA                                                                              Start Date   : 9/22/2011
Traffic Control: Traffic Lights                                                                                 Page No      :4



                                     East Main Street (Route 28)                      East Main Street (Route 28)                      Harrison Boulevard
                                            Southbound                                       Northbound                                    Eastbound
           Start Time          Thru        Right       Peds    App. Total        Left       Thru        Peds    App. Total      Left     Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
            07:15 AM             58           67           0          125          99         121         0           220        94        54           0         148         493
            07:30 AM             69           71           0          140         109         140         0           249        92        55           0         147         536
            07:45 AM             59           81           0          140         102         123         0           225        86        57           2         145         510
            08:00 AM             50           73           0          123         103         128         0           231        67        62           1         130         484
        Total Volume            236          292           0          528         413         512         0           925       339       228           3         570        2023
        % App. Total           44.7         55.3           0                     44.6        55.4         0                    59.5        40         0.5
                  PHF          .855         .901        .000         .943        .947        .914      .000          .929      .902      .919       .375         .963         .944
     FHWA Class 1-3             230          267           0          497         371         501         0           872       309       200           0         509        1878
   % FHWA Class 1-3            97.5         91.4           0        94.1         89.8        97.9         0
         94.3      91.2      87.7           0        89.3         92.8
       FHWA Class 4                0            0          0             0           4           5        0
             9         3        0           3            6          15
     % FHWA Class 4                0            0          0             0         1.0         1.0        0            1.0       0.9        0        100           1.1          0.7
    FHWA Class 5-13                6          25           0           31          38            6        0            44        27        28           0          55          130
  % FHWA Class 5-13              2.5          8.6          0           5.9         9.2         1.2        0            4.8       8.0     12.3           0          9.6          6.4

                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                    810        497     1307
                                                                                       8         0         8
                                                                                     33         31       64
                                                                                    851        528     1379


                                                                                       267  230    0
                                                                                         0     0   0
                                                                                        25     6   0
                                                                                       292  236    0
                                                                                     Right Thru Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                      1147


                                                      1275
                                                        10
                                                       118
                                                     Total




                                                              309


                                                              339
                                                               27
                                                                 3
                                    Harrison Boulevard




                                                             Left




                                                                                            North
                                                55
                                                 6
                                               509


                                               570




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                    200


                                                                    228
                                                                     28
                                                                      0


                                                             Peds Right
                                              In




                                                                                 FHWA Class 1-3
                                                                                 FHWA Class 4
                                                                0
                                                                3
                                                                0
                                                                3
                                    638


                                    705
                                     63
                                       4




                                                                                 FHWA Class 5-13
                                   Out




                                                                                         Left Thru Peds
                                                                                          371  501    0
                                                                                             4    5   0
                                                                                           38     6   0
                                                                                          413  512    0


                                                                                    430        872     1302
                                                                                       0         9         9
                                                                                     34         44       78
                                                                                    464        925     1389
                                                                                   Out        In      Total
                                                                                  East Main Street (Route 28)
