                                                       City Council Communication

 Date             Agenda No.      Subject

   9/3/2013            7(b)       Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R at 2100
                                  W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street

 Presented By:            Glen Van Nimwegen, AICP, Director of Community Development

POLICY QUESTION:

Should the city change the zoning of land with single-family, commercial or mixed-use zoning at 2100 W.
Littleton Boulevard and 5759 S. Bemis Street to residential zoning at the intensity proposed by the requested
Planned Development zoning?


BACKGROUND:

On June 24, 2013, the Planning Board reviewed the proposed rezoning and general planned development plan
for 250 units and voted 7-0 to deny Planning Board Resolution No. 13-03, which recommended conditional
approval. On July 8, 2013, the Board voted 7-0 to approve Planning Board Resolution No. 13-04 that forwards
a recommendation of denial to City Council.

The public hearing for City Council was set for July 30 at which time the applicant proposed the following
changes:

   ·    Reduced height from five stories to four;

   ·    Reduced the number of units from 250 to 225 decreasing the density from 56 du/ac to 50 du/ac; and

   ·    Increased the building setback on Littleton Boulevard from 10 to 15 feet.

Instead of proceeding with the scheduled public hearing, City Council voted 6-1 to remand the rezoning request
back to the Planning Board for review in light of the changes to the project proposed by the developer. In
addition, the applicant is proposing berming on the west side of the site. Constructing the berm in the city ditch
easement will require a license from the City of Englewood. Englewood city staff has expressed initial concern
with this proposal.

STAFF ANALYSIS:

The previous staff recommendation included twelve conditions, which were attached to the proposed ordinance.
The applicant has agreed to comply with all of the recommended conditions and has incorporated them into the
revised PD plan. Table 1: Changes made to PD Plan, was put together by staff to specifically indicate where the
conditions were incorporated into the PD document.
 Date             Agenda No.       Subject
     9/3/2013          7(b)        Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R at 2100
                                   W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street


For this project area and request, two sets of policies must be evaluated:

     ·   The Citywide Goals, Sterne Park and Downtown Neighborhood Plan portions of the COMPLAN; and

     ·   The Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study and Design Guidelines for the Sheriff's Department Site (2000
         W. Littleton Boulevard).

Following are the pertinent criteria from the above-referenced documents, which was used to evaluate the
proposal. The staff comments are denoted below each statement in italics, with current updated comments
in bold.

I.       City's COMPLAN-Community-Wide Goals and Policies:

The proposal with the recommended conditions of approval is consistent with the following pertinent Community-
wide goals and policies of the COMPLAN:

Goal 1:           Preserve Littleton's unique identity by protecting historic structures and emphasizing Littleton's
distinct social and economic heritage with consideration given to:

         a.     View preservation
         b.     Landscape preservation
         c.     Topography
         d.     Human Qualities
         e.     Encouragement of variety in housing stock and types of people.

June 24/July 30 plan: With the walkout basement level, the west side of the building will be six stories for the
majority of the elevation. However, the two separate buildings break up the visual massing along with additional
step backs and design requirements will create at least five sub-masses. The proposed maximum number of floors
and setbacks from Littleton Blvd. (5' step back above the 2nd floor, 25' step back above the 3rd floor and then 70'
back above the 4th floor) lower the building massing significantly reinforcing the prominence of the Historic
Courthouse. Staff condition #4 is review of the architectural, site and landscape design by the Planning Board
thereby ensuring that the massing and architectural details will respect the Historic Courthouse and result in an
aesthetically pleasing view from downtown.

NOW: The lower building height, the greater setback from Littleton Boulevard, the screening of the walkout
basement level with a berm and the additional step backs and design requirements now give an appearance of
several three and four-story buildings along the western edge. The additional setback from Littleton Boulevard
combined with the lower building height further reduces the scale of the northerly portion of the building in
relation to the Historic Courthouse. Staff's recommended condition #4 as stated above has been added under
the Development Conditions on Sheet 2.




                                                         2
 Date             Agenda No.       Subject
    9/3/2013            7(b)       Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R at 2100
                                   W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street

Goal 2: Develop Littleton's economic independence and reemphasize downtown as Littleton's economic and social
        center.

June 24/July 30 plan: Development of the site at the full potential of the existing B-2 zoning will have greater
impact on the adjoining neighborhoods, which is in conflict with other goals to protect the neighborhood. The
additional residences will increase the market for Main Street and Littleton Boulevard businesses and staff
condition #5 provides the opportunity for a limited residential use. The adopted design guidelines for this area
recommend multiple family residential in this location to support the nearby light rail transit station. Included
in the attached application materials, the applicant has provided a fiscal benefit comparison showing greater
annual revenues and one-time fee and taxes for the proposed residential development versus a mixed use
allowed under the present B-2 zoning.

NOW: The above statement still applies. Recommended staff condition #5 is noted under the Development
Conditions on Sheet 2 of the PD Plan.

Goal 7: Promote and maintain an attractive and healthful living environment for present and future Littleton
        Residents.

June 24/July 30 plan: The lower building heights and larger step-backs along Bemis and Littleton Boulevard lessen
the visual impact on the adjoining neighborhood. In addition, providing residential housing near the light rail
transit will encourage walking and another mode of travel reducing the use of motor vehicles. The recommended
conditions of approval include widening the sidewalk and street right-of-way for Bemis Street, installing a traffic
signal at Bemis and Littleton Blvd., widening the sidewalk on the Alamo Bridge to provide safer pedestrian access to
the transit and downtown, conveying an easement to construct a trail connecting to the public trail system, and
constructing a sustainable building. Refer to staff conditions #2, 7, 8, and 10.

NOW: The setbacks and stepbacks along Bemis have been increased from 20' to 25' for Floors 1 and 2, and
subsequently increased to 30' for Floor 3 and 50' for Floor 4. The setbacks and stepbacks along Littleton
Boulevard have been increased from 10' to 15' for Floors 1 and 2, from 15' to 20' for Floor 3, from 35' to 40' for
Floor 4. In addition, a fifth floor has been removed. The recommended staff conditions 2, 7, 8 and 10, as
described above have been incorporated into the revised PD Plan.

Housing Policy 11: Encourage known energy efficient construction techniques in all types of housing.

June 24/July 30 plan:   Condition #3 requires a LEED standard to be met.

NOW: This condition is noted under Development Conditions on Sheet 2 of the PD plan.

Land Use Policy 1: The City shall emphasize the use of the Planned Development (PD) technique for all new
development within the City and provide incentives for developers to use this technique.

June 24/July 30 plan: Approval of a Planned Development Plan is included with the rezoning request to PD-R. The
PD process allows specific standards to be applied to a particular development in order to mitigate impacts to the
surrounding neighborhood and area. In addition to development standards noted on the proposed PD Plan,
Conditions 1 through 12 meets this policy.


                                                         3
 Date             Agenda No.        Subject
      9/3/2013          7(b)        Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R at 2100
                                    W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street

NOW: The above statement still applies. Staff recommended conditions 1 through 12 have been noted and
incorporated in the revised PD plan.

Land Use Policy 3: New development in the interior of established neighborhoods, not adjacent to arterial streets,
should respect the existing densities and land uses of the neighborhoods in order that the character is preserved.

June 24/July 30 plan: The proposal along with implementing the conditions of approval will result in a residential
development that is lower in scale and building mass, which is more compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
Refer to conditions 1, 4, and 11.

NOW: Lowering the building height, removing the fifth floor, reducing the density, and increasing setbacks
have further reduced the scale and building mass making it more compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood. Staff recommended conditions 1, 4 and 11 are included in the revised PD Plan.

Transportation Policy 2:       Provide traffic controls on internal residential and collector streets to improve safety
and to maintain proper levels of traffic speed and volume.

June 24/July 30 plan: The Littleton Boulevard Design Guidelines recommend properties on Littleton Boulevard
utilize the intersecting secondary streets, like Bemis Street, for access. The applicant proposes a traffic signal at
the intersection of Bemis and Littleton, and a "No Right Turn" sign on their site to prevent vehicles exiting the
development from traveling south into the neighborhood on Bemis Street. The applicant is agreeable to placing
other measures in the lease agreement (condition #6).

NOW: The applicant's commitment to bearing the costs of the traffic signal and recommended condition #6 are
both noted on Sheet 2 of the revised PD Plan.


Transportation Policy 10: Maintain and improve existing sidewalks and bike systems so that safe access is
provided within the City.

June 24/July 30 plan: Conditions 8 and 10 require widening of Bemis Street along the site's frontage and
expanding the width of the sidewalk along the bridge over the railroad depression at Alamo to accommodate
increased pedestrian use.

NOW: Conditions 8 and 10 are included in the revised PD Plan both graphically and noted on Sheet 2.


II.      Downtown Neighborhood Plan

Policy LU-10: Development adjacent to the identified iconic structures should respect and not detract from
their prominence. (Staff note: The plan identifies the Courthouse as such a structure)

LU-10a: Require that the height, scale, building placement, and other design elements of new construction,
expansion, or other property changes respect and do not overwhelm iconic structures. Employ techniques such
as building setbacks and step-backs for upper stories, and further detail that direction in the Downtown Design
Standards and Guidelines.
                                                          4
 Date             Agenda No.      Subject
       9/3/2013        7(b)       Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R at 2100
                                  W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street


Policy LU-12: Development in areas that are outside of downtown but immediately adjacent to downtown
gateways should be planned with consideration of their proximity to downtown and their potential role and
impact on downtown. The four gateways are located at Main Street/Littleton Boulevard, Main Street/Alamo
Street/Santa Fe Drive, Prince Street/Santa Fe Drive, and the Downtown Littleton light rail station.

LU-12a: Plan new developments immediately adjacent to downtown gateways so that they improve
connections to downtown, function as part of a gateway to downtown, follow the same design standards, and
are consistent with the Downtown Neighborhood Plan.

June 24/July 30 plan: Instead of one large building, the PD Plan proposes two separate buildings thereby
visually reducing the mass and scale of the project. The standards on the PD Plan and the recommended
conditions of approval provide building step-backs, which further reduce the scale of the building in relation to
the Historic Courthouse. Staff is also recommending a more robust architectural review process because of the
significance of the site (condition #4).

NOW: All graphics and notes on the PD Plan have been updated to show the new building design with
more traditional architecture consistent with the courthouse design. The new design is one level shorter and
steps farther back from Littleton Boulevard, which further reduces the scale of the building in relation to the
Historic Courthouse. Condition #4 is noted under the Development Conditions on Sheet 2.

III.      Sterne Park Neighborhood

Neighborhood Goal 1: Preserve the unique character of the neighborhood and general "quality of life" aspects,
especially the mix of architectural styles, mature trees, and quiet atmosphere of the residential areas.

June 24/July 30 plan: The proposal along with implementing the conditions of approval will result in a residential
development that is lower in scale and building much more compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
Implementing additional measures to reduce southbound traffic into the neighborhood is detailed in the
recommended conditions of approval. Staff is also recommending increasing the setback of the building on Bemis
Street (condition #1).

NOW: Lowering the building height, removing the fifth floor, reducing the density, and increasing setbacks
have further reduced the scale and building mass making it more compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood. The PD Plan now reflects the recommended increased building setback on Bemis Street. The
measures to reduce southbound traffic into the neighborhood are noted on Sheet 2 of the revised PD Plan.

Neighborhood Goal 2: Improve transportation facilities and traffic controls only to the extent necessary to
improve safety and to provide good traffic circulation within the neighborhood.

Transportation Policy 1: That traffic controls in internal residential and collector streets be maintained or
improved to improve safety and to prevent further increases in speed and volume of traffic.




                                                        5
 Date               Agenda No.      Subject
      9/3/2013          7(b)        Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R at 2100
                                    W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street

June 24/July 30 plan: The developer has committed to installing a traffic signal at Bemis and Littleton Blvd.
(condition #7). Implementing additional measures to reduce southbound traffic into the neighborhood is described
in condition #6.

NOW: The developer's commitment to both the traffic signal and measures to reduce southbound traffic on
Bemis (conditions 6 and 7) are noted on Sheet 2 of the revised PD Plan. The reduction in the number of
units will result in a reduction in the number vehicle trips generated.

Land Use Policy 2: That emphasis in the decision-making process be placed on the preservation of the
neighborhood as a sound, desirable residential area.

June 24/July 30 plan: The design guidelines of the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study recommend residential
development at a density of 50 units per acre. The proposal along with implementing the conditions of approval will
result in a residential development that is lower in scale and building mass, and is more compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood. Constructing two smaller building masses instead of one large building mass; providing
additional step-backs for floors above the second and third stories, design requirements, which further visually
break up the massing and lower the building near the courthouse meets the intent of the Littleton Boulevard
Corridor Study (condition #11). Emphasis in the decision-making process to preserve the neighborhood will be
accomplished with the recommended condition #4.

NOW: The revised proposal reduces the density to 50 du/ac. The conditions of approval, including the
referenced conditions #4 and #11 are incorporated into the revised PD Plan. The reduction in building
height, removal of the fifth floor and increased setbacks and step backs has further reduced the scale and
mass of the building making it more compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.

IV.       Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study Design Guidelines for Sheriff's Site and Community
          Center Site (Littleton Station)


      ·   1C1 Massing/Height/Scale

      ·   1C1.2 Building form next to Littleton Blvd. and Bemis Street should be a maximum of three stories,
          stepping up in height away from the street.

June 24/July 30 plan: The setbacks along both Littleton Blvd. and Bemis Street are consistent with the above
guideline. The 1st and 2nd floors will be 10 feet from Littleton Blvd., 3rd floor will be 15 feet, and the 4th floor
will be 35 feet. The PD Plan proposes a 20 feet setback from Bemis for the 1st and 2nd floors, 25 feet for the 3rd
floor and 45 feet for the 4th floor. Staff recommends that the 20 feet setback be increased to 25 feet adding five
feet more to the two upper setbacks to make this frontage more compatible with the east side of Bemis
(condition #1).

NOW: The setbacks and stepbacks along both Littleton Blvd. and Bemis Street have been increased. The
Bemis Street setback has been increased to 25' for Floors 1 and 2, 30' for Floor 3, and 50' for Floor 4.
Littleton Blvd. setbacks are now 15' for Floors 1-2, 20' for Floor 3 and 40' for Floor 4. The fifth floor has
been removed.

                                                         6
 Date             Agenda No.       Subject
   9/3/2013            7(b)        Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R at 2100
                                   W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street


   ·    1C3 Architectural Character

Goal 1: The architectural character should complement the existing historic architecture of this subarea.
Goal 2: To create buildings that provides human scale, interest, and variation.

   ·    1C3.1 All buildings should be designed especially for the context and character of the area.
   ·    1C3.2 The buildings should possess an architectural character that reinforces the historic character of the
        existing buildings in this area.

June 24/July 30 plan: The greater setbacks and reduced building heights along Littleton Blvd. and Bemis Street
bring this building to a human scale with interest and variation. The larger step-backs above the second story
along Bemis Street make the building mass more compatible with the lower scale buildings along Bemis Street
and reinforce the prominence of the Courthouse. Refer to new conditions 1, 4, and 11.

NOW: As described previously, the proposed changes will result in a development consistent with the stated
goals. Staff recommended conditions 1, 4, and 11 are incorporated in the revised PD Plan.

   ·    1C6 Rooftop
   ·    1C6.1 Sloped roofs are preferred over flat roofs.


While the primary roof form will be flat, the development guidelines on the PD Plan state that some sloping
roof forms may be used to create visual interest and to relate to the adjacent buildings.

   ·    2A1 Building Relationships Goal: To present an attractive west façade to the light rail station and
        downtown.

June 24/July 30 plan: With the walkout basement level, the west side of the building will be six stories for the
majority of the elevation. However, the two separate buildings break up the visual massing along with
additional step backs and design requirements to create at least five-sub masses. Recommended condition #11
will further modify the setback standards for both the west and south elevations so 33% of the Level 5 of the
southern building shall step back 25 feet from the setback of the Level 1. In addition, recommended condition
#4 employs a process, which will include affected residents and the Planning Board during the finalization of
the architectural design.

NOW: The lower building height, the greater setback from Littleton Boulevard, the screening of the walkout
basement level with a berm and the additional step backs and design requirements now give an appearance of
several three and four-story buildings along the western edge as shown on Sheet 3 of the PD plan. The
additional setback from Littleton Boulevard combined with the lower building height further reduces the scale
of the northerly portion of the building in relation to the Historic Courthouse. Staff's recommended conditions
#4 and #11 as stated above have been added to the revised PD Plan.

   ·    2C1 Massing and Height

                                                         7
 Date             Agenda No.       Subject
   9/3/2013            7(b)        Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R at 2100
                                   W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street

        Goals: To reflect the scale and height of the adjacent neighborhood and historic courthouse.
        To maintain a two to three story edge to Littleton Blvd, particularly along the south side to
        provide more sun exposure to the street.




                                                                                       From page 10 of
                                                                                       Littleton
                                                                                       Boulevard
                                                                                       Design
                                                                                       Guidelines




   ·    2C1.1: Higher building forms should be located at the southwest and west portions of the site stepping
        down toward Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street. No building shall exceed the height of the
        courthouse, 81 feet. (Staff note: The cupola is 81 feet while the larger mass of the building is shorter).

   ·    2C1.2: The building (s) along Bemis Street should respect the scale and pattern of the houses across the
        street through such design strategies as the articulation of building form, column/pier spacing, window
        pattern, and similar approaches.

June 24/July 30 plan: The plan proposes two separate structures similar to the above site plan. Additionally,
floor step backs above the second floor for the third and fourth stories along Bemis and Littleton Blvd. respect
the scale of the houses along Bemis and the prominence of the Courthouse. The taller portions of the buildings
will be concentrated at the southwest corner of the development.



                                                         8
 Date             Agenda No.        Subject
     9/3/2013           7(b)        Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R at 2100
                                    W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street

As stated previously, recommended conditions of approval will further modify the setback standards for both
the west and south elevations and employ a process, which will include affected residents and the Planning
Board during the finalization of the architectural design (conditions 4 and 11).

NOW: As described previously, the proposed changes with greater setbacks and lower building heights will
result in a development consistent with the stated goals. Staff recommended conditions 4 and 11 are
incorporated in the revised PD Plan.


     ·   Development Catalyst Sites (Folded Map)
         Arapahoe County Sheriff's Facility

June 24/July 30 plan: The folded map included in the corridor study refers to medium density residential
development as up to 50 units per acre. The proposed density of 56 units per acre may be justified with the
recommended conditions, which include the developer providing trail connections, constructing a sustainable
building and providing safety improvements such as widening the Alamo bridge sidewalk and a traffic signal at
Bemis (conditions 2, 3, 7, and 10).

NOW: The proposed density has been reduced to 50 units per acre. Staff recommended conditions 2, 3, 7 and 10
are now incorporated in the revised PD Plan.

V.       Planned Development District:

Section 10-2-23 (E) (4) (a) states that City Council base its decision on the conformance of the proposed plan
with the stated intent of the Planned Development District. Following are the pertinent citations:

10-2-23 (A): Intent: The Planned Development (PD) District is hereby created to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by allowing more flexible development, based upon a comprehensive, integrated
plan.

10-2-23(B):     Application and Intent: Further, in the application of this Section it is the intent of the Council to:

     1. Encourage more creative and effective use of land and public or private services, and to accommodate
        changes in land development technology so that the resulting economies benefit the community.

            ·   The additional residences at this location will increase the market for Main Street and Littleton
                Boulevard businesses and note #3 under Development Conditions on Sheet 2 of the revised PD
                Plan provides the opportunity for a limited residential use.

     2. Encourage innovation and efficiency in residential development to meet the growing demands for
     housing of all types and designs for persons of any social or economic status.

            ·   With a 4% apartment vacancy rate in Littleton, the development will meet the demand for
                apartment housing and provide new product to an existing older housing stock. New energy
                efficient building materials and appliances will help conserve natural resources.
                                                          9
 Date            Agenda No.       Subject
   9/3/2013           7(b)        Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R at 2100
                                  W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street


   3. Encourage innovative development or redevelopment of all land uses to meet the contemporary needs
   of the community by providing for a greater variety and mix of uses including those which may coexist
   on the same parcel or within the same building as shown on an approved general PD plan.

           ·   As stated above, the development will provide new housing near downtown Littleton and the
               light rail.

   4. Provide a process, which relates the design and development of a site to the particular      characteristics
   of the site.

           ·   The planned development plan process allows specific standards to be applied to a particular
               development in order to mitigate impacts to the surrounding neighborhood and provide
               additional offsite improvements to benefit the community. The recommended conditions of
               approval agreed to by the applicant have been incorporated into the revised PD plan. This will
               assure that the project will meet the intent of this statement. The project has been evaluated
               against and is found to meet the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study Design Guidelines for the
               Sheriff's site, which were created and adopted by Council to address the design and development
               of the subject site.

   5. Require that the nature and intensity of development be supported by adequate utilities, transportation
   network, drainage systems, and open space to serve the development, and to minimize impacts on adjacent
   existing and future development.

           ·   The development will link to a trail network, is adjacent to transit, and provides on-site
               recreation facilities designed for the expected population. Existing utilities and roadways will
               serve the site. In addition, further safety improvements will be provided such as a traffic signal
               at Bemis Street and widening the sidewalk on the Alamo bridge.

   6. Encourage development that is consistent with the policies and guidelines established in the
      adopted Comprehensive Plan for the area and for the City.

           ·   As previously described, the proposed density, the larger step-backs above the second and third
               stories and constructing two smaller building masses instead of one large structure, along with
               the recommended conditions, are consistent with the intent of the COMPLAN and the Littleton
               Boulevard Corridor Study.

FISCAL IMPACTS:

Included in the attached application materials, the applicant has provided a fiscal benefit comparison showing
greater annual revenues and one-time fee and taxes for the proposed residential development versus a mixed use
allowed under the present B-2 zoning.

City Council recently adopted Ordinance No. 14, Series 2013, which requires payment of impact fees. If approved,
the developer will be required to pay an impact fee of $3,762 per unit at the time of building permit issuance.
                                                        10
 Date             Agenda No.       Subject
     9/3/2013          7(b)        Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R at 2100
                                   W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street


STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

Staff recommends approval of the proposed project as it is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan. The design,
height, form and density of the project, as bound by the Broadstone at Littleton Station general plan development
plan, is consistent with the goals, objectives and design guidelines of the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study. In
addition, the project meets the intent of the Planned Development district.

PLANNING BOARD RECOMMENDATION:

On August 26, 2013, the Planning Board reviewed the revised rezoning request and modified general planned
development plan and voted 6-1 to deny Planning Board Resolution 13-07, which recommended approval. The
Board then voted 6-1 to approve Planning Board Resolution 13-08 that forwards a recommendation of denial to
City Council. Planning Board Resolution No. 13-08 and the draft minutes from the meeting are attached.

CITY COUNCIL:

The attached ordinance, which was approved at first reading, has been amended due to the recent changes
proposed by the applicant at the Council meeting on July 30. Exhibit B, which listed the recommended
conditions of approval, has been removed because the revised PD Plan, dated August 21, 2013, contains the
conditions within the plans.

Per Section 10-12-4(B) 3(d), the Council may:

           ·    Approve the proposed rezoning request;
           ·    Approve the request with conditions reasonably related to meeting the criteria upon which the
                granting of the application would be based;
           ·    Approve a higher classification than requested;
           ·    Deny the request;
           ·    Or table the matter, to a date certain, pending the provision of further information by the
                applicant or staff.

PROPOSED MOTION:

I move that the ordinance approving the rezoning of property known as 2100 W. Littleton Boulevard and 5759 S.
Bemis Street from B-2 Community Business District and R-3 Single Family Residential District, respectively, to
PD-R Planned Development Residential be approved as revised August 21, 2013.

Attachments:

1.      Staff Report Supplement
2.      Proposed Ordinance No. 12, Series 2013 (Amended)
3.      Area Reference Map
4.      Planning Board Resolution No. 13-08
5.      Planning Board Draft Minutes (08/26/13)
                                                    11
 Date             Agenda No.      Subject
     9/3/2013          7(b)       Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R at 2100
                                  W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street

6.      Letters from citizens
7.      Revised Application and attachments
        · Application Form / Owner's Consent
        · Letter of Intent
        · Otten-Johnson Legal Opinion
        · Use and Bulk Comparison
        · Fiscal Benefit Analysis
        · LEED Information
        · Zoning Comparison Chart
        · Referral Comments
        · Neighborhood Meetings
        · Declaration of Public Policy / Justification
        · Noise Study
        · Traffic Impact Analysis
        · Economic Analysis
        · Demographic Analysis
8.      Table 1: Changes made to PD Plan
9.      Broadstone at Littleton Station Planned Development Plan, rev.08/21/13




                                                       12
1.   STAFF REPORT SUPPLEMENT
STAFF REPORT SUPPLEMENT: QUESTIONS SUBMITTED FROM COUNCIL
AFTER JULY 2, 2013



COUNCILMEMBER PEGGY COLE:

1. In terms of impact on the neighborhood (the architectural character, density, etc.), how does
the impact of the proposed rezoning/project compare -- not to the previous proposal that was
withdrawn last month and which I never studied or even read -- but instead to:
   a. What already exists on the site?
   b. What could be built with the current zoning for the site?

STAFF RESPONSE: In the attached table (Broadstone at Littleton Station Development
  Options) staff has attempted to compare what is existing on the site, what is proposed and
  what the current B-2 zoning allows. This is similar to what the applicant provided within
  their submittal. Please keep in mind that redevelopment of the site under the B-2 standards
  may take many forms as there is not a height limit and a generous allowable building square
  footage. Also, the allowed uses under B-2 include retail, office and residential (see
  http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id=504 for a complete list of
  allowable uses), with the requirement that no more than 50% of the square footage may be
  residential. The numbers for the existing zoning represents development of a mixed-use
  project at the maximum intensity allowed with 50% multi-family, retail on the first floor and
  the remainder of the space as office.

2. When I skimmed what was submitted to Council for the First Reading, I noted some of the
  ways that the proposal will try to limit traffic impacts (e.g., if I recall correctly, occupants will
  not be able to drive south when exiting the site will (or at least there will be a sign telling
  them not to). But how will the proposal
     a. constrain occupants and their visitors from approaching Broadstone by driving north or
  south on Bemis, not using the parking lot and, instead, usurping the residential parking spaces
  (and on-street parking for Sterne Park and the Rose Garden) on Bemis as far south as
  Shepperd or even the short block further to Lake? (During Fall and Spring semesters, many
  Auraria students park there; and many people who ride the Light Rail park there all year
  long.)
     b. constrain occupants and their visitors from driving north through the Sterne Park
  Neighborhood; for example, driving from Sterne Parkway, driving east or west on Lake
  (connecting to Windermere or to S Prince to head north or south on Prince to avoid downtown
  red lights and congestion), and south on Spotswood, to connect to Lake, Caley Ave, Ridge
  Rd, etc. to head to Broadway or S Santa Fe)?




                                                                                                      1
STAFF RESPONSE: There is nothing to keep residents or visitors to Broadstone from parking
  on Bemis from Littleton Boulevard to Lake Street. However, the first spaces used will be
  those that are closest to their destination which will be on-site. The project is providing the
  code required number of parking spaces. Future occupants and residents certainly could
  travel the public streets you have mentioned. The applicant is proposing measures to make
  entering the site from the north, or exiting to the south difficult with the alignment of the
  driveway and taking management steps to reduce the likelihood.

3. How many residents will, realistically, drive to work (rather than take the Light Rail)? How
   many of cars will be able to exit via the traffic light onto Littleton Blvd during each cycle of
   the light during rush hour? (Note: During morning rush hour, they will probably not be able
   to make a right turn without a green light, because of the heavy traffic flow.) How many cars
   will be able to queue up on Bemis between that traffic light and the exit from the parking lot?


STAFF RESPONSE: It is estimated that there will be a 10% reduction in vehicle trips due to
  proximity to the light rail station. So, of those who must travel to work, 90% are expected to
  drive. The actual timing of the traffic light has not been determined at this time. It is 410 feet
  between the entrance to the project and Littleton Boulevard. Assuming the left turn lane is a
  minimum of 200 feet, this allows 610 feet of queuing, or approximately 30 vehicles.

4. The proposed height of the building does not exceed the Court House (and thus complies
   with, I believe, the Littleton Corridor Plan). But how does the plan address
      a. the issue of scale/mass, compared to the Court House and the houses across the street
   on the east side of Bemis and in the nearby neighborhood, particularly between Shepperd and
   Lake, between Sycamore and S Spotswood?
      b. the historic character of the immediate neighborhood, including, for example,
          1) the historic Court House
          2) the Louthan Historic District
          3) many other historic houses on both sides of Littleton Blvd, 2 or 3 blocks east, whose
   live-in owners have been investing so much money in to upgrade, while preserving the
   historic character of the houses?
          4) other historic houses in the Sterne Park Neighborhood, especially those between
   Shepperd and Lake (some of which have been recently upgraded with an effort to preserve
   their historic character)?
      c. the historic Downtown area, including
          1) the Main Street Historic District itself
          2) buildings that could be admitted to the Main Street Historic District but have not
   applied
          3) the historic character of many buildings that are not part of that district (on Alamo
   and many of the N/S and E/W streets north of Main Street and several that are between Alamo
   and Church)?
                                                                                                    2
  STAFF RESPONSE: The staff report includes the goals of the Comprehensive Plan,
  Downtown Neighborhood Plan and the Littleton Corridor Study, the majority of which state
  the importance of the Courthouse and existing neighborhoods. The requested zoning gives
  the Council an opportunity to weigh each of these goals, policies and criteria of these
  documents against the proposal to change the use of the site; whereas development of the site
  under the existing zoning does not.

5. What is the anticipated impact on use of Sterne Park, the Rose Garden and the Buck
   Recreation Center?

STAFF RESPONSE: The applicant is projecting a population of 500 residents from the project.
  It is difficult to estimate the impact this increase in population will have on these specific
  facilities. However, the developer is required to pay a one-time impact fee for expansion of
  all city facilities. In addition, the Buck Center offsets their operating costs with user fees.



COUNCILMEMBER JIM TAYLOR:

Can we get a fairly current traffic count on Littleton Blvd just east of the railroad tracks? What
is the road capacity? and will the proposed development exceed the design capacity?

STAFF RESPONSE: The City's traffic counts for 2011 indicate between Prince and Broadway
  that there is an average of 23,196 trips per day. The measure of design capacity is the rating
  on the level of service (LOS) for an intersection (a=good and f=bad). Staff concurs with the
  traffic report which states that with the proposed project and accompanying traffic light at
  Bemis and Littleton Boulevard, this intersection will be at a LOS of B.

If people are concerned about traffic going south from Broadstone, can we close Bemis street
and make it a cul-de-sac?

STAFF RESPONSE: This may warrant further consideration. It would allow free pedestrian
  movement between Sterne Park and the retention basin south of the proposed project. One
  concern would be providing an additional access to the residents on Bemis Street in case an
  incident, such as a traffic accident, closes access to Littleton Boulevard temporarily.

Can you give more details about what could be built under the current zoning -- all the types of
commercial, number of residential units, height of bldg allowed, parking requirements and can
the site accommodate the parking under the maximum development, required open space for
current, anything else you can provide. Sometimes what is available under permitted is worse
than what is proposed, and I want to understand these differences.

STAFF RESPONSE: Please refer to the attached table "Broadstone at Littleton Station
  Development Options". As stated above, the configuration of the redevelopment of the site

                                                                                                     3
  under the existing B-2 zoning is limited by the requirements that the gross floor area of
  buildings cannot exceed twice the area of the parcel (392,040 square feet); 20% must be open
  space; setbacks and parking have to be provided. The other variables that will affect the form
  of the development will be the market and the costs of construction.

The following is on the Ordinance, Exhibit B:

#1: if this was 20 feet, which I think is common in other places; could the buildings fit better on
the site?

STAFF RESPONSE: Reducing the setback on Bemis Street would provide more buildable area
  on the site. Staff is recommending the additional setback to match the average of the setback
  that exists on the east side of Bemis Street and match what would be required under the B-2
  zoning.

#4: be prepared for the public hearing to explain why this is a requirement for this development
when it has not been for others.

STAFF RESPONSE: The developer suggested an increased level of architectural review. Staff
 agrees that the context of this site is unique and therefore the additional effort is warranted.

#4.d: did the developer request a public gathering place, or is that staff's requirement, and why?

#5: is the retail a desire of the developer or the staff? If this space is apartments, could the 6th
floor be gone?

STAFF RESPONSE: This is something the developer is incorporating into their Cherry Hills
  project and would like the opportunity for this in Littleton. Staff made it a part of the PD
  because we think it could be an amenity for the neighborhood, would generate some revenue
  for the city, but not be of a scale that competes with businesses in downtown or along Littleton
  Boulevard. The space is only 1,200 square feet, so if it is not a "retail café or similar
  neighborhood scale retail" it would be an apartment unit.

#6: and if they don't enforce?

STAFF RESPONSE: Our enforcement responsibility will be only to ensure that there is
  language in the lease agreement penalizing residents who exit to the south or enter from the
  south.

#7: will the developer know what will be required prior to permit, or will it come as a surprise?

STAFF RESPONSE: The building permit review will include the design of the intersection and
  traffic signal that are prepared by the developer and approved by the Public Works
  Department. They are aware of the costs involved. The developer will be required to install
  these improvements prior to approving the certificate of occupancy for any unit.

                                                                                                       4
#8: widen only at the property limits of this development and not further south?

STAFF RESPONSE: Yes, though some transition area may be required south of the site.

#9: I am somewhat bothered by this being a requirement

#10: this is a benefit to the "other" public as well; shouldn't the city contribute some to this cost?

STAFF RESPONSE: Staff believes this is warranted as a developer expense because of the
  increase in population that will be crossing the bridge to the light rail station.

#11: is this another reason why there are six floors when there could be five?

STAFF RESPONSE: The requirement is not causing the addition of a sixth floor; it is an effort
  to reduce the visual impact of the sixth floor by breaking it up into separate masses.

Is my reading correct that the Littleton Community Trail will be allowed along the west side of
this property?

STAFF RESPONSE: Yes they are incorporating it into the emergency access that is required
  along the west and south. Dedication of an easement for the trail is included in condition #2.



COUNCILMEMBER CERNANEC

I.    There is no legend to the document to note the significance of non-italicized versus italicized
      comments/descriptions/positions/rationale. Please clarify who is stating, or what documents are
      being referenced. Also, please distribute the referenced documents, so that comments/excerpts
      can be considered `in context':
      · Sterne Park Neighborhood Plan
      · `Final' Downtown Neighborhood Plan
      · Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study
      · Design Guidelines for the Sheriff's Department Site (2000 West Littleton Boulevard)

Are the `Citywide Goals' referenced, those from the Council's Goals and Objectives? If not, please
      provide those, as well.

STAFF RESPONSE: The Citywide Goals are from the Comprehensive Plan, not Council's
  Goals and Objectives. Here are the links to the referenced documents:

Citywide Goals and Sterne Park Neighborhood Plan contained in the current comprehensive
plan found here
http://www.littletongov.org/modules/showdocument.aspx?documentid=94




                                                                                                        5
There is discussion about gateways to the downtown (which this is) located in the Downtown
Neighborhood Plan
http://www.littletongov.org/modules/showdocument.aspx?documentid=93

The Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study; Design Guidelines for The Sheriff's Department Site
(subject site) and Community Center Site. Pay particular attention to the text on the map at the
end of the document
http://www.littletongov.org/modules/showdocument.aspx?documentid=91

II.    The Planning Board minutes/discussion were not included with the Agenda Communication of
       02JUL2013. Please include/distribute those, and reference the meeting date at which the public
       hearing, discussion, and consideration were made.

STAFF RESPONSE: Done.

III.   Section 10-2-23 has requirements for a PD-R re-zone, that there be 25+% of unobstructed open
       space. Where/how is this addressed?

STAFF RESPONSE: In the table on the cover page of the PD-R is their commitment to
providing a minimum of 30% unobstructed open space.

IV.    There does not seem to be any response from the applicant to the `staff' proposed conditions 1-
       12. Where in the package are the applicant's changes to accommodate / respond / include these
       modifications? I am not following what the applicant is proposing, what modifications have been
       made, and what modifications the applicant is choosing to have the Council evaluate in lieu of
       addressing the Staff's conditions. If the Staff's conditions are addressed, would the Planning
       Board's recommendation change?

STAFF RESPONSE: The applicant stated at the June 24 Planning Board meeting that they
agreed to the conditions presented by staff. The physical changes to the project and adjacent
right-of-way recommended in the conditions have to be approved by staff before a building
permit would be issued. The Board was aware the developer agreed to the conditions, but did
not see the physical changes to the structure caused by the implementation of #1, 5 and 11.

V.     I recall from some prior discussions that part of a re-zoning requirement is that there has been
       some `change in conditions.' Please elaborate upon these criteria, and its applicability to this
       application. [There has been some comments made that the property could be built out with the
       current zoning, and that mass would be greater than the varied/modified applications. If so, why
       is a rezoning request necessary?]

STAFF RESPONSE: Section 10-12-1 of the Littleton Zoning Code requires that for the zoning to
be changed it has to be consistent with the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan and it
promotes the general welfare of the community. Absent that, the applicant must demonstrate the
rezoning is justified because of "...changed or changing conditions in the particular area or city
in general..." It is staff's contention the request is consistent with the goals of the

                                                                                                          6
comprehensive plan as described in the staff report. Attached to this supplement is a
spreadsheet that illustrates what could be built under the existing B-2 zoning. The rezoning is
necessary for the total floor area to be devoted to greater than 50% residential use.

VI.    How will this application produce something that is `complementary' to the Sterne Park
       Neighborhood and Downtown Littleton?

STAFF RESPONSE: It is staff's recommendation that the proposed project, with the additional
12 modifications and conditions, meets the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan and the
design guidelines of the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study. However, redevelopment of the site
under the current B-2 zoning, which requires no public review or approval, would be contrary to
the Sterne Park Neighborhood Plan which states: "Prohibit encroachment of commercial uses
into established residential areas by limiting such uses to existing commercial districts such as
Littleton Boulevard".

VII.   The documents are difficult to follow electronically. Can a document package be produced and
       distributed that clearly delineates the different sections, the purposes of the sections, etc.?

STAFF RESPONSE: Hopefully we have done that.

VIII. We had discussed having better `visuals' for what the build out might look like would be
      beneficial. Where are such visuals for this application? Can what is proposed in the rezoning
      application and the alternative as with the Staff conditions be included? Can the surrounding
      properties/environment be shown for comparisons, context, etc.? These would be helpful to
      determine if there will be something complementary.

STAFF RESPONSE: The applicant will present a computer generated model of the project and
how it will appear in the actual context and topography of the site. It will allow them to show
views from any perspective. Attached to this supplement are more detailed building elevations
that were part of the June 24 Planning Board presentation.




                                                                                                         7
                                                        Broadstone at Littleton Station Development Options

                                               Residential          Office       Retail       Total Square   Required     Required    Floor Area          Visible Height      Peak Vehicle Trips
        Development Options
                                                                                                Feet (SF)    Parking     Open Space      Ratio        Stories          Feet
                                                                                                                                                                               AM          PM
                                              SF        Units        SF           SF                                                                East West East West
Broadstone at Littleton Station PD-R        222,500          250             0            0        222,500         375          30%           1.1      4     6     36    66       115           140
Existing Development                           1,200            1     26,621              0         27,821          90          20%           0.1      2     3     25    35         23          32
Allowable under Existing B-2 Zoning         196,020          220    118,020       78,000           392,040       1,114          20%           2.0      5     5     41    41       725           633



SF: Square feet
AM: Morning
PM: Afternoon
Floor Area Ratio = Building Area / Land Area
Vehicle trip numbers are from "Trip Generation" published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers
EVOLUTION OF DESIGN
EVOLUTION OF DESIGN
2.   PROPOSED ORDINANCE (AMENDED)
3.   AREA REFERENCE MAP
4.   PLANNING BOARD RESOLUTION NO. 13-08
5.   PLANNING BOARD DRAFT MINUTES
              (08/26/13)
 1                                 MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS
 2                             LITTLETON CITY PLANNING BOARD
 3                                     AUGUST 26, 2013
 4
 5   The Littleton City Planning Board met on Monday, August 26, 2013, in the Council Chambers of
 6   the Littleton City Center, 2255 West Berry Avenue. The meeting convened at 7:00 p.m.
 7
     1.     ROLL CALL
 8
     2.     AGENDA
 9
     3.         MINUTES
          Approval of the July 22, 2013, minutes
10
11   Board Member Rudnicki moved that planning board approve the July 22, 2013, minutes,
12   seconded by Board Member Graham.
           Motion carried 7-0
13
14
     4.   SCHEDULED/UNSCHEDULED APPEARANCES
15   Unscheduled appearances as follows:

16   Ben Burkett, 5730 S. Bemis St., wanted to thank the volunteer board members for their time.
17   Acknowledged that the board has asked that there not be duplicate or repetitive comments from
18   people, but states it is their right to speak even if it is repeated.

19
20   Pam Chadbourne, 5402 S. Nevada St. She presented information about radicalism in the city
21   of Littleton in regards to rezoning high-density apartment housing. She stated the citizens need
22   to know the reasons, advantages, disadvantages, risks, and benefits for current zoning and what
23   will happen to the city over time. She commented on impacts, investments and traffic.

24

25   Sharleen Williams, 850 West Powers Drive, stated she has come to talk about the density of in
26   District 2. She expressed concerns relating to the impacts the new apartment developments will
27   have on the school system, aging apartment buildings and crime.

28   Colleen Gray, 3080 W. Prentice Ave., Littleton stated she bought a condo at Steeplechase, and
29   expressed concerns regarding the proposed rezoning of the Villages of Belleview because it
30   affects traffic, quality of life, and property values. Concerned about high-density housing
31   projects all throughout Littleton.

32
33   Chair Duzan asked if there was anyone else interested in speaking. No one else came forward.
34
35

                                                     1
     5.            PUBLIC HEARING
     a. Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
         Rezoning from B2 and R3 to PD-R, 2100 Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis St..
36   Chair Duzan stated this was brought forward a month ago and recommended to the council and
37   council chose to remand it back to the board because of changes to application. The board wants
38   to focus on the changes that relate to change in density, height, and setbacks. Board has already
39   heard testimony on the other issues, so they want to keep this focused on these changes. Invited
40   Jan to present city's staff report.
41
42   Jan Dickinson, Principal Planner, opened the presentation. Ms. Dickinson presented the List of
43   Exhibits, which included letters that city staff received from citizens today. Summarized
44   changes from the applicant from June 24 PD plan. Reduction of units from 250 to 225, density
45   from 56 to 50 units per acre, max height from 59 feet to 49 feet, stories from 5 to 4 stories,
46   building set back on Littleton Blvd from 10 to 15 feet. Other changes are the conditions of
47   approval previously recommended by staff. The applicant has agreed to these conditions and
48   transferred them all on to the PD plan document.
49
50   Chair Duzan asked if she could explain a "split signal" traffic signal proposed at Bemis and
51   Court Place.
52
53   Jan Dickinson gave examples of an existing split signal on Bowles.
54
55   Board Member Graham explained a split signal is when you turn and go into a "holding tank"
56   of 1, 2, or 3 spaces where there is a second light that releases you into the traffic flow.
57
58   Chair Duzan stated that they will have the applicant explain it more at their time.
59
60   Glen VanNimwegen, Community Development Director, talked in detail about the plan
61   development and comprehensive plan that is outlined in full in the Staff Report. Specifically,
62   discussed areas in which the project will be maintaining the character and expectations of the
63   City of Littleton residential living. As examples, explained the widening of Bemis street and
64   providing pedestrian crossings. He explained the additional development conditions such as
65   sound and construction measures, and building setbacks, which can be reviewed on the plan.
66   Staff recommends approval of the modifications.
67
68   Chair Duzan asked if there were any questions of the Board had staff can address at this point.
69
70   Board Member Rudnicki quoted Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study under recommended
71   market about density of 50 units per acre being supportable. He stated the study did not mention
72   that density west of Windemere. Stated that density can vary depending on where you are, so
73   cannot put a blanket density of 50 units per acre on Littleton Boulevard. Asked why the study
74   was not included in the COMPLAN.
75
76   Glen VanNimwegen explained that council believed it was too detailed to be part of the
77   Comprehensive Plan. Planned development plan is a process used to create better design for a



                                                     2
 78   project. This is the process to implement the design guidelines and make them part of an
 79   ordinance with regard to the effective law.
 80
 81   Chair Duzan asked if there were any other questions for staff before moving to the applicant.
 82   None asked. Invited the applicant to present application.
 83
 84   Andy Clay, Alliance Residential Company, 2000 S. Colorado Blvd., Ste. 10500 in Denver,
 85   CO. He explained that residents approached them after last meeting and asked for some
 86   changes that would make this development worthwhile. Worked through that with them, and
 87   believes they are supporting the project now. Provided summary of application, evolution of
 88   design, justification for rezoning, consistency with city goals and policies, and fiscal benefits
 89   analysis. Proposed PD-R will have the least impact on the neighborhood, generate less trips per
 90   day and require less parking spaces. Discussed how this project will raise the standard for luxury
 91   multifamily residential living. Discussed compliance with ordinances and adopted plan.
 92   Introduced their consulting economic analyst to explain fiscal benefits and changes.
 93
 94   Dan Guimond with Economic and Planning Systems gave background of company and his
 95   part in this particular project. Measured fiscal revenues for Alliance on this project and
 96   compared it to an alternative scenario under different zoning. Revenue summary reviewed for
 97   this project initially compared to proposed. Reviewed demographics with regards to rent rates
 98   between current and proposed zoning. Looked at demographics in number of new projects in the
 99   city and demographics for this project are above levels that they originally calculated at over
100   $50,000 for single person and $100,000 for couples and roommates. Reviewed calculations of
101   retail spending and sales tax between two zoning options. Compared spending to surrounding
102   areas and state that roughly half of the expenditures would be spent in Littleton. Reviewed
103   property taxes for residential properties. Reviewed impact fees and permits. Other benefits of
104   proposed zoning reviewed. Stated there are stronger transit benefits with proposed zoning.
105
106   Mackenzie Jellum , Alliance Residential Company,2000 S. Colorado Blvd., Ste. 10500,
107   Denver, CO, 80222, shared photos of another property they developed near Alameda and
108   Colorado (Broadstone Gardens at Cherry Creek) to show what to expect in this current project,
109   as they are similar. Focused on Wi-Fi café, fitness center, and amenities of the property in
110   Cherry Creek. This project has 191 units. She then presented Max Scott, consultant who
111   provided opinion about project.
112
113   Max Scott, Oedipus, Inc. reviewed history of his business, which performs opinion polls and
114   surveys. He provided copies of the survey report to the Board. He was retained by Alliance to
115   do a survey for existing zoning versus the proposed zoning. He presented a diagram defining the
116   neighborhood that was polled. Explained the results obtained, showing the number of residents
117   polled, for or against the project.
118
119   Andy Clay came forward to conclude their presentation and stated that Alliance has tried very
120   hard to respond to resident concerns.
121
122   Chair Duzan asked to restate unit sizes and mix.
123


                                                      3
124   Andy Clay stated an average unit size is 947 square feet and the unit mix of 41 percent 1
125   bedroom/1 bath and 59 percent 2 bedroom/2 bath.
126
127   Further discussion with the applicant and staff ensued regarding the density figures mentioned in
128   the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study: 50 du/ac under the section "Recommendations Market"
129   and 40 du/ac under "Development Catalyst Sites."
130
131   Board Member Rudnicki stated that the applicant could have gone to lower number versus the
132   higher number.
133
134   Chair Duzan opened the hearing for public comment.
135
136   Paul Bingham, 236 West Delaware Circle, submitted a letter to the Board. Stated that he is
137   opposed to the project. Stated concerns of building height and mass, inconsistent with
138   COMPLAN, traffic.
139
140   Marty Bolt, 6187 S. Windemere Way, Opposed to the project. Stated concerns regarding traffic
141   and ruining the historic neighborhood.
142
143   Carol Brzeczek in District 4 at 2000 W Arapaho Road stated that she is opposed to this project.
144   Stated concerns about the building height, it is not a four-story building, taking away from the
145   historic courthouse and destroying the character of the neighborhood.
146
147   Lou Sullivan, 5940 S. Bemis Street, opposed to project. Concerns about building height and size,
148   dwarfing the courthouse and not in character with the neighborhood.
149
150   Erin Aldrich, 5731 S. Spotswood Street, stated she's been a Littleton resident for over 30 years
151   and is against the rezoning and the building of this massive project on this site.
152
153   Nancy Barger at 6149 S Bemis Street opposed to the project. Concerned about traffic and
154   construction in the surrounding areas. Follow the wishes of the citizens and keep the character
155   of Littleton.
156
157   Sharleen Williams at 850 West Powers Drive, opposed to project and the high-density. This
158   building will destroy District 2 as it will use all our resources.
159
160   Jeanie Erickson at 5567 South King Street stated there have been four high density apartment
161   complexes approved already and approving this one will not match the historical architecture of
162   the area. Stated she believes enough has been added and plan looks like a box. Does not care
163   about how long the roof will last, but cares about long-term effect and recommends project be
164   denied.
165
166   Colleen Grey at 3080 West Prentice Avenue, opposed to project. Questioned the sales taxes and
167   where the money will be spent. Appalled at the size of the building. Does not believe it is
168   compatible with history and quality of Littleton.
169


                                                      4
170   Betty Harris at 6281 South Cedar Street, opposed to project stated she was interested in survey
171   with the map because in that area she got 135 signatures in a petition against rezoning.
172   Concerned about the density, too many apartments in Littleton, crowding, distress and crime.
173
174   Ben Burkett at 5730 South Bemus Street stated he lives across the street from the proposed
175   development in a historic home, opposed to project. This project does not fit into the historic
176   characteristic of the neighborhood. Concerned about parking and traffic impacts. Most other
177   citizens don't want this project.
178
179   Brenda O'Connell at 5791 South Spotswood Street stated she is against the rezoning of massive
180   high density apartment complex because it is not the right place. It will forever change the area
181   and degrade the character of the area. It will not preserve the unique aspects of the
182   neighborhood. Stated there are too many traffic and parking concerns as well.
183
184   Leah Burkett at 5730 South Bemis Street stated the project tonight looks like the same project
185   presented two months previously. Stated widening the bridge on Alamo puts pedestrians and
186   cars too close together. Showed video of commute on Alamo bridge to show being closer to the
187   cars would be frightening. There are already enough high density apartments. There are other
188   options to build, such as a lower density complex.
189
190   Mike Geraty at 5675 South Crocker Street stated survey results may be skewed based on what
191   residents want to see on that piece of land. Would not have bought home if knew about the
192   project. Already approved several rental projects, no reason to add more. Too many floors on
193   building, so asked to say no to the project.
194
195   Gerard Halleren at 5551 South Cedar stated he is opposed. There is an absence of information.
196   Parking for 1-1/2 vehicles seems inadequate for the income bracket. Too many questions and
197   opacity with regard to traffic. Would like to see something with more transparency in building
198   process.
199
200   Kathy Messenger at 5743 Shasta Circle stated she would like the board to cast a vote against
201   project because the project does not fit in with Littleton character. Too dangerous to widen the
202   sidewalk on the bridge, as the blind school is not too far away from that spot. Asked the board to
203   consider that. Stated project is not right for the city or community.
204
205   Joseph Devlin at 5870 South Bemis Street stated building this project is unbelievable. Most
206   concerning is the traffic on Bemis because road is already narrow. Residents of the new
207   apartment will go to Bemis to get out or get in and will cause dangerous traffic issues. Urged
208   board to vote no on the project.
209
210   Pam Chadbourne at 5402 South Nevada Street stated that the building is five stories because
211   basement is still a floor. There have been several revisions, which are appreciated, but still not
212   fit for this site. Added this building will lose Downtown discriminator. Project does not
213   completely comply with Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study.
214
215


                                                       5
216   Thomas Obrien at 5652 South Cedar Street is in favor of the project. He stated change and
217   progress is necessary. Would like to see more change in Littleton so asking to vote in favor of
218   project.
219
220   Gary Johnson at 5753 South Prescott Street stated he is a traffic engineer who was originally
221   opposed but is now supportive because he would like to continue dialogue with developer and he
222   believes this is an appropriate use of the site. Discussed trip generation and that it is not
223   accurate.
224
225   Francis Pierson at 1950 West Littleton Boulevard stated he had been consistently against
226   proposal until about a month ago, but is now in favor because worked with the developer to
227   make a proposal that is more appropriate for the needs of the community. Believes the developer
228   was considerate of the request, so believed there is a common ground that can be met.
229
230   Norm Brown in District 1 at 6081 South Spotswood discussed rail traffic. Advised against
231   putting any residential buildings on this property.
232
233   Christine DeOrio at 5652 South Spotswood Street stated bought home a couple of months ago
234   because liked the old town Littleton feel. Stated this project is simply not the right fit for the city
235   or area because would take away from the character of Littleton and transform the neighborhood
236   into a completely different place.
237
238   Andrew Benedik at 5905 South Crocker Street, Alliance worked directly with him and met with
239   them several times finding ways to make the project more acceptable, so now favors the project
240   because Alliance has been understanding and cooperative. This project is better than what could
241   possibly go there. Feels that 225 is an acceptable number of units.
242
243   Susan Burkstoner 6120 South Sterne Parkway stated the project does not adhere to goals of the
244   community. Stated developer's numbers of economic benefits do not match the reality of the
245   downtown area. Project does not meet comp plan goals and policies, so opposed to the project.
246
247   Norman Stucker at 801 Shady Croft Lane and office is 2009 West Littleton Boulevard, the
248   courthouse office building. Stated that the buildings built later in 1960s did not take away from
249   the older buildings and does not believe the new buildings will either, but will enhance and add
250   to the architecture of the neighborhood. Believes it is consistent with local buildings because
251   there are four story buildings. Downside is traffic. Would appreciate a light at Bemis and
252   Littleton to get to Sterne Park.
253
254   Mary Weis at 1953 West Lily Ave stated that cannot walk on Alamo so will not walk down to
255   light rail any more. If going to increase amount of people, need a pedestrian bridge, not just a
256   widening of the sidewalk. Concerned with density because density in Littleton is already pretty
257   high.
258
259   Stew Meagher at 6696 South Crocker Way suggested that developer is collaborative and since
260   something is going to happen on that site, should work with a developer that works with the
261   community. Needs to move the city forward, so asks board to support the project.

                                                         6
262
263   Doug Clark at 2454 Houstoun Waring stated surprise in that Littleton Corridor Study is just a
264   guideline. There have been renditions, but the building is still massive and garage will still need
265   to be five stories. That development would not be compatible with single-family historic area,
266   and is not compatible with the Littleton corridor study. Urges board to turn this project down.
267
268   The following citizens signed the public hearing roster, are opposed to the project but did not
269   wish to speak: Vicki Peterson, Roger Peterson, Susan Geraty, Joel Grossheusru, Lori Schultz,
270   John Schultz, Gaye Denley, Dale Hilborn, Richard Camp, Patrick Sullivan, Cora Devlin, Dan
271   Messer, Doug Krenik, Mike Gasper ,Ray Flesher, Virginia Camp, Olcott Pinkston, Peter
272   TenEyck, Dave Mitchell, Betty Carr, Sue Young, Solbritt Murphy,
273   Mary Gravely
274
275   Chair Duzan stated would like to give the applicant the opportunity to respond to the comments.
276
277   Andy Clay, stated he would like to disagree with definition of medium density as it's been
278   described. Read portion about Development Catalyst Sites in corridor study. Proposed that 40
279   units/acre was a baseline minimum/threshold point. Changes have not been cosmetic. Changes
280   to height and density (per city code) setbacks are significant changes to the project and to the
281   number of units, parking, trips generated, and steps back on third and fourth floors. Company
282   has listened to the concerns of the citizens, but each reason to deny proposal are components that
283   would be an issue in the current use by right and probably significantly greater. I see this as a
284   proposal of limits. A project that limits current parking, trips per day, height, architecture,
285   design quality and construction quality in a way that B-2 zoning does not. Widening Alamo
286   does include a slush barrier built in addition to that widening to protect the walkway from slush
287   and rain, creating a better condition.
288   Asked why would someone rent at this rate when could buy? Answer is because of the bubble
289   that happened in single family residential. Tying up 20% equity is not necessarily best use of
290   capital. Doesn't mean they're not committed to community. Understands this is a wonderful
291   neighborhood, which is why so much corroboration has been done with citizens.
292
293   Board Member Kari Elrod, had a question for the city, has the Littleton Boulevard corridor
294   study been adopted by council?
295
296   Jan Dickinson stated it was accepted by council, ratified.
297
298   Board Member Elrod asked Andy how many parking spaces.
299
300   Andy Clay stated 338, over 1.5 plus 20
301
302   Board Member Elrod asked if that includes visitors.
303
304   Andy Clay stated it does include visitor, and 1.5 is a minimum that is believed to be adequate for
305   this property.
306



                                                       7
307   Board Member Elrod asked about current zoning and whether still needs to abide by Corridor
308   plan.
309
310   Mr. Van Nimwegen stated that the design guidelines may be used for physical design, but can't
311   limit current zoning by land use restrictions in design guidelines. Do that through zoning, not
312   through ratified document by council.
313
314   Board Member Elrod asked if zoning would override the land use recommendations in the
315   corridor study?
316
317   Mr. Van Nimwegen stated yes.
318
319   Board Member Bolt asked about the PD plan. Termination element which is View 7, southeast
320   elevation, page 4. Basement story is visible above ground.
321
322   Mr. Clay stated software does not address topography, so he introduced his architect to answer.
323
324   Harsh Parikh, architect stated when trying to input topography into the program, portions
325   shown in picture are not there. This is due to the slope and a flaw in the program. There will be
326   no basement component to northerly half. He further stated the entire west side of the south
327   building and a portion of the south side of the southerly building will have the walkout basement.
328   Basement level will provide access to sidewalks for pedestrians.
329
330   Chair Duzan asked if the berm needs approval from City of Englewood and asked if there have
331   been discussions.
332
333   Harsh Parikh stated there have been some discussions, but not detailed. Englewood would
334   have some concerns about trees being planted in the city ditch easement.
335
336   Board Member Moore asked about parking. Currently enough for each bedroom to have one
337   car. Wants to know if extra vehicles would be on the street.
338
339   Andy Clay stated that is correct, currently at minimum of one space per bed. Stated they didn't
340   think more parking than that would be necessary but will work with residents if they want that.
341
342   Chair Duzan, asked about signalization with left turn, about stacking, trying to make left turn on
343   Bemis if there are only two spaces on a busy day. Asked if there is a commitment/requirement
344   that stacking goes along with reconfiguring of the intersection?
345
346   Charles Buck, Felsburg, Holt, and Ullevig (Traffic Consultant) stated if signalized, What is
347   existing would be sufficient stacking. The lane is about 60 feet which would hold about two to
348   three vehicles.
349
350   Board Member Baertlein asked Glen/city to confirm if plan for site redevelopment says four
351   story height limitation.
352


                                                      8
353   Mr. VanNimwegen stated height is called out in design guidelines and also in Staff Report.
354
355   Chair Duzan stated at this point that he would like to close public hearing, thanked everyone for
356   comments. Open up to the board for deliberation, comments, thoughts.
357
358   Chair Duzan asked for a motion.
359
360   Board Member Samuelson moved to approve Planning Board Resolution 13-07, which
361   forwards a recommendation of approval to city council.
362
363   Board Member Elrod seconded the motion.
364
365   Chair Duzan stated there is a motion and second to approve Board Resolution 13-07.
366
367   Board Member Moore addressed inability to grow in Littleton. Majority of proposal is on
368   Bemis, not on Littleton. Neighborhood Goal Number 1 is not fit because project is a gateway
369   and need to preserve character of neighborhood.
370
371   Board Member Samuelson not opposed to multifamily housing in Littleton, it's inevitable.
372   Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study is poorly written and conflicting in many areas. This project
373   does not meet Sterne Park neighborhood goals. Detracts from Sterne Park.
374
375   Board Member Elrod stated this is how it is supposed to work with plans and guidelines to
376   guide judgment with building projects. Decision difficult because it's a great project but
377   important site in Littleton so there is a lot of scrutiny. Comp plan, corridor study, Sterne Park all
378   working in conjunction to help make the decision. Strong plan but feel need to use tools to guide
379   decision.
380
381   Board Member Graham stated that he is impressed with project presentation and steps taken to
382   reduce density. Commendable about not giving up. Design is very well done, and benefit if
383   keeps with style of historic Littleton. This site should be multi-family housing, but what was
384   presented was not enough. Appreciates that multi-family would help businesses prosper.
385   Timeless location in Littleton and believes developer takes this seriously, but still looking for
386   something different and more fitting and unique to the property. Vote will likely be no because
387   he doesn't think the architectural design of the property would be unique enough for that spot.
388
389   Board Member Rudnicki discussed the quote about "following the mob." He has been a
390   proponent of multi-family projects all throughout Littleton. Discussed the issue with the number
391   of stories and the confusion of it in regard to sloping, berms, and other ways around the story
392   limitations. Quoted more about the plan and how it does not meet limitations and guidelines.
393   Drawing on page 16 of corridor story reviewed. Tedious architecture and not unique. Stated
394   need to live with zoning given for the area.
395
396   Board Member Bolt brought up comment of token vote and that that is not true. Project looks
397   good. Stated he is not concerned with density but concerned about picture in corridor study the
398   sloping roofs but is more of an overhang. East elevation that faces single family houses does not

                                                        9
399   match the neighborhood. Is not what the community is looking for. Urged the developers to
400   keep trying for a project that fits the site
401
402   Alt. Board Member Baertlein stated that this is a big site and the project does not fit with the
403   development, but it is a great project and have done well with making changes. The use is not
404   necessarily contradictory to good planning principles.
405
406   Chair Duzan thanked developer for their persistence and cooperation with the citizens. There
407   are still things that need to be worked out but they are site plan items, not zoning items. The site
408   is a prime transit site and should be residential. Just in that regard, the architecture should be
409   more compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. Would like a building that fits the historic
410   community. Asks for any other follow-up comments.
411
412   Board Member Elrod stated this is an exciting piece of land that needs a great, unique idea.
413   Don't have a lot of single family housing, so would like to see something great that will be there
414   for a long time to come and mean a lot to the city.
415
416   Chair Duzan called for vote.
417
418   Motion failed 1-6 with Chair Duzan voting in favor.
419
420   Deputy City Attorney, Kristin Schledorn, stated that the city code requires the Planning Board
421   forward a resolution with recommendation to City Council so she asked for a 10-minute recess to
422   draft a resolution recommending denial based on discussion and bring back for consideration and
423   vote after that recess.
424
425   Principal Planner Jan Dickinson prepared different resolution 13-08 with planning board
426   recommending denial of the request and justification that rezoning is inconsistent with goals and
427   policy of the COMPLAN.
428
429   Chair Duzan asked if they need to vote?
430
431   Deputy City Attorney, Kristin Schledorn stated that the board can make a motion to approve
432   this resolution or make a different motion. But, they need a resolution before it can go to
433   council.
434
435   Board Member Elrod offered a different motion to recommend approval Resolution 13-07
436   which will forward a recommendation of approval with conditions reducing the density to 43.45
437   units per acre, which is consistent with R-5 zoning.
438
439   Chair Duzan asked for a second. None given.
440
441
442
443



                                                      10
444   Board Member Elrod asked if they can do this and adopt Resolution of 13-07, in the packet,
445   with condition that density could not exceed 43.56 du/acre, roughly 196 units.
446
447   Deputy City Attorney, Kristin Schledorn, answered yes.
448
449   Board Member Moore asked about including the acreage with easements in the density
450   calculations.
451
452   Chair Duzan stated that they need a second before debate. Board Member Graham seconded.
453   Received unknown second.
454
455   Chair Duzan explained that all acreage of the property is used in calculating the density.
456
457   Board Member Graham expressed concern about making decision at such a late hour. Would
458   like to offer suggestions to the project, but wants it to be well thought out.
459
460   Board Member Elrod explained reasoning for R-5 condition, because it is more compatible
461   with downtown zoning.
462
463   Board Member Bolt stated that his issue isn't with density but with visuals of the exterior on
464   the east and west elevations.
465
466   Chair Duzan stated they can vote on this. Asked if there was any other discussion prior to vote.
467
468   Board Member Elrod asked if the vote does not work out, how they can continue this
469   discussion.
470
471   Deputy City Attorney, Kristin Schledorn, stated they need to table decision of case if they
472   cannot pass a vote. The process will not be completed if a vote doesn't go through. Applicant
473   needs to agree to later date if the Board tables its decision.
474
475   Chair Duzan called the vote on motion with the condition of density reduction.
476   The motion failed 1-6 with Board Member Elrod voting in favor.
477
478   Chair Duzan moved to table the decision to give the applicant time to work out densities and
479   architecture plan.
480
481   Andy Clay stated that he does not have the authority to agree to the tabling.
482
483   Chair Duzan withdrew his motion.
484
485   Board Member Rudnicki made a motion that we approve resolution 13-08, which recommends
486   denial.
487
488   Board Member Bolt seconded the motion.
489


                                                      11
490   Chair Duzan asked if there is discussion.
491
492
493   Chair Duzan stated if no discussion, Board members cast their vote.
494
495   Motion passes 6-1 with Chair Duzan voting against it.
496
      6.    GENERAL BUSINESS
497
      7.    COMMENTS/REPORTS
      a. Staff
         No Comments

      b. Commissioners
         None

      c. Chair
         None
499
      8.   ADJOURN
500   The meeting was adjourned at 12:05 a.m.
501
502
503

      _____________________________________________________________________________
      Glen Van Nimwegen, Secretary to the        Recording Secretary
      Planning Board
504




                                                    12
6.   LETTERS FROM CITIZENS
7.   REVISED APPLICATION AND
        ATTACHMENTS
LETTER OF INTENT
City of Littleton
Community Development Department
2255 West Berry Avenue
Littleton, CO 80120

August 12, 2013

Re:     Rezoning of 2100 W. Littleton Boulevard & 5759 S. Bemis Street

Dear Community Development Department:

Please accept this letter of intent regarding our proposal to rezone and develop the site located at 2100, 2120 West
Littleton Boulevard, and 5759 South Bemis Street. The site is approximately 4.5 acres and currently zoned as B-2
Commercial Business and R-3 Residential. We have submitted a rezoning application to allow for residential use as a
Planned Development. The current property owner is LBI Group, LLC. Their contact information is 2100 W. Littleton
Blvd., suite 300, Littleton, CO 80120. LBI Group, LLC is reachable by phone at 303-782-0003.

As you know, we had a late submission of three additional substantial conditions prior to the last City Council meeting.
We would like to reiterate that although the timing was unfortunate, this was initiated by residents that formerly
opposed our project but are now in support of it. They approached us immediately after our Planning Board hearing to
request further collaboration. This collaboration resulted in the reduced height, density and increased set back along
Littleton Boulevard that is reflected in this application. It also addresses significant concerns raised by Planning Board on
June 24th. As we have discussed, all conditions have now been integrated into the application and are explicit in our PD
Plan.

Currently, the site is comprised of three parcels. The first being Lot 1, Block 1 of the Intermountain Subdivision, which
contains 2100 and 2120 West Littleton Boulevard. Both buildings are currently being used as office space consisting of
11,000 square feet. Approximately 5,500 square feet are occupied by the owner. The second, Parcel 2, is a single family
residential lot known as 5759 Bemis Street. Lastly, Parcel 4 is vacant land that contains a railroad right-of-way, a 25 foot
easement for the Englewood City ditch which was relocated and enclosed underground in a 60 inch reinforced concrete
pipe, and a Qwest fiber optic line.

Our development plan includes construction striving to achieve LEED Gold certification for a luxury apartment rental
community. The community is comprised of no more than 225 units or 50 dwelling units per acre. The product consists
of two buildings which are 2, 3, 4-story wood frame construction over one level of concrete podium construction on the
southwest portion of the site wrapped around a 4 and 5 level above grade concrete parking structure. This revised
massing, density and planned architectural style is intended to compliment and respect the historic courthouse in size,
style and design components.

This application strikes a balance between the adjacent Transitional and Residential zoning on Bemis Street while still
maximizing the economic benefit to the City and support of Downtown Littleton businesses. The guidance provided by
Planning Board and input from residents has further clarified the importance of height and density in the guiding
documents. The proposal now fits squarely within the recommendations of the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study, the
Sterne Park Neighborhood Plan, and the COMPLAN.

The proposed development will be the second Class "A" project in Littleton and will be the first built to LEED Gold
standards. There are currently only two existing residential buildings in the Denver Metro Area built to LEED Gold
standards. It will target an actively engaged demographic with an even mix of professionals in their early-to -mid-30's
and aging boomers between 50 and 65 years old. The common interests of these residents will be walkable
entertainment and services as well as quick access to outdoor activities, trails, and open space. Approximately 51% of
the units will be one-bedroom with 59% two-bedrooms and an average unit size of 947 square feet. Each unit will be
outfitted with premium fixtures and finishes, including quartz or granite countertops with undermount sinks, and full
size washer/dryer machines. Resident parking will be within a secured above ground parking structure at a ratio of no
less than 1.5 spaces per unit. Storage spaces as well as secured bike storage will also be available on site. The
Clubhouse amenities will include a wifi café, sports and entertainment lounge, fitness center equipped with cardio and
strength training machines, and a conference room to support the business needs of residents. The property's
courtyard will feature a large, resort-style pool and spa with barbeque areas and an outdoor fire pit.

We have substantial experience building within high quality, established mixed-use neighborhoods and look forward to
working with the local community and the City of Littleton to design a product that will have a positive impact on the
city. Thank you for your attention to this request and we look forward to working with you.

Sincerely,

Andy Clay
                                                Executive Summary

·   Title work on the property indicates the existing zoning was implemented over thirty years ago. It allows non-
    conditional uses that are not in the interest of public health and welfare (see Exhibit A). Many uses conflict with
    the Littleton Corridor Study, the Comprehensive Plan and the Sterne Park Neighborhood Plan.

·   The Littleton Corridor Study explicitly states that the existing zoning "allows some commercial uses that are
    incompatible with the redevelopment plan" (see Development Catalyst Sites goal #1 of study fold-out).
    Rezoning of this parcel could not be interpreted as arbitrary and capricious but an opportunity to carry out the
    direction articulated in this study and the other guiding documents and policies.

·   Existing office vacancy within a 1 mile radius of the light rail station is 30%. The existing office space on the site
    consists of only 50% occupancy if you do not account for the ownership group occupancy.

·   A commercial project under the existing zoning would increase vehicular trips and associated impact by 35% to
    40% at a minimum compared to this application.

·   Multifamily vacancies for buildings less than 20 years old in the City of Littleton are less than 10%.

·   In the last 13 years the Denver Metro Area has observed apartment communities converted to condos and
    condos become rental communities. The 8%-10% shift from homeownership to renting in Colorado and
    throughout the U.S. reflects a large new class of non-transient renters who are not motivated to own.
    Legislation in Colorado now and in the near future makes new condo development infeasible. Residents who
    desire to live in a more dense community with walkable access to transit and retail services have limited
    ownership opportunities. The construction quality of the proposed community is more likely to be a candidate
    for condominium conversion than any currently proposed or under construction in the City of Littleton.

·   According to Apartment Insights (www.apartmentinsights.com) there is currently only one Class "A",
    unrestricted apartment community in Littleton. There are 87 in the entire Metro area.

·   A likely development that could be built under the current zoning would be a mixed-use project (50%
    commercial & 50% residential) that would allow up to 200 ­ 300 residential units (depending on size) and little
    or no public input. Alliance's proposed development represents an equal or higher economic benefit while
    taking into account the City's guiding documents and neighborhood input. Additionally, in order to attract high
    quality commercial tenants, additional economic incentives or subsidies would most likely be required.

·   Littleton Corridor Study and Guidelines identified this specific parcel as a development catalyst in 2002. The
    study identified the goal of "maximizing value" and allowing for a purely residential, "medium density"
    development. Staff and Planning Board have inferred from parts of the same study that 50 DU/acre represents
    "medium density" at this location. This application reflects 50 DU/acre.

·   Adjacent to our property line, only 132 lineal feet of the 445 lineal feet fronting Bemis neighbors are zoned for
    single family residential. The remaining 313 lineal feet is zoned Transitional allowing multifamily townhomes
    and apartments among other commercial uses. Currently, out of the ten structures along the east side of Bemis
    Street (north of Sterne Park), three are operating as businesses and seven are residential homes.

·   Alliance has revised this application several times responding to staff and area stakeholders. This amended
    application responds to the following feedback received from neighbors, the City and stakeholders:
         o Reduced unit count from 325 to 225.
         o Break the building into two separate structures ­ this application creates two separate structures and
            allows views into our courtyard and potentially through to the west.
         o Reduce Bemis St and Littleton Blvd heights to 3 stories ­ this application accomplishes this with the 4th
            story being set back so far back as to be unseen from the pedestrian street view.
       o   Move heights and density to west and southwest, away from the Courthouse ­ this application consists
           of 3 stories stepping back to four stories at the northwest corner adjacent to the courthouse, and the
           fifth story has been eliminated.

·   Impact Fees including building permits, plan review, use tax, Arapahoe County Open Space Tax, parks fee, and
    water and sewer systems development fees total over $13,000 per unit. This is double the amount within the
    City of Denver and comparable to Lone Tree, Centennial and Greenwood Village.

·   Alliance funded pedestrian improvements will enhance Sterne Park neighborhood pedestrian accessibility to the
    Courthouse and Buck Center complex as well as to Downtown Littleton and the light rail station.

·    Alliance funded park improvements will enhance the floodplain area to the south achieving the goal of
    converting it into a park as articulated in the Littleton Corridor Study (See Implementation goal #3 and
    Development Catalyst Sites goal #1 of study fold-out). Part of these funds may also be available for
    improvements or upgrades to Sterne Park.

·   The proposed project provides an opportunity for Littleton to be the first city outside of Denver proper with a
    community built to LEED Gold standards (see Exhibit C). Only two exist currently in the entire Denver Metro
    area.

·   The proposed project includes third party review during design and construction for FHA, ADA, and Title 9
    compliance assuring that the community treats all prospective residents with equality.
        EXHIBIT A

Otten Johnson Legal Opinion
      EXHIBIT B

Fiscal Benefit Analysis
Economic & Planning Systems
· Full service economic consulting firm
· Denver, Berkeley, Sacramento, Los Angeles
· Expertise
   ­ Real estate economics
   ­ Fiscal and economic impact analysis
   ­ Transit Oriented Development
   ­ Economic development
   ­ Public finance
   ­ Land use policy




                         Broadstone Littleton Station   0
EPS Scope of Work
· Retained by Alliance Residential Company
· Prepare independent estimate of project's fiscal benefits
· Major City revenues
   ­ Property tax
   ­ Sales tax
   ­ Fees and permits
   ­ School district property tax




                          Broadstone Littleton Station    1
Development Scenarios
· Existing zoning is B-2 and R-3
· Proposed Zoning Change
   ­ Planned Development Residential (PDR)
   ­ 225 apartments, 947 sq. ft. average size
   ­ $1,549/month average rent
· Existing Zoning
   ­ 50% residential 50% commercial (incl. parking structure)
   ­ 175 apartments, 800 sq. ft. average size
   ­ $1,000/month average rent
   ­ 25 live-work spaces
   ­ 9,000 sq. ft. ground level office or retail




                           Broadstone Littleton Station         2
Revenue Summary




             Broadstone Littleton Station   3
Project Demographics
· Proposed Zoning Change
   ­ Rent = 25% of household income
   ­ $1,549/month average rent
   ­ $74,400 household income (calculated)
· Existing Zoning
   ­ $1,000/month average rent
   ­ $48,500 household income (calculated)
· Demographics in existing ARC Projects
   ­ ~$50,000 for singles
   ­ $100,000+ for couples and roommates
· Littleton average household income is ~$80,500



                        Broadstone Littleton Station   4
Retail Spending and Sales Tax
· Proposed Zoning Change
   ­ $74,400 HH income = $16.7M total HH income
   ­ 35.6% spent on retail = $5.9M spending potential
   ­ $2.9M captured in Littleton (half)
   ­ $89,900 in sales tax
· Existing Zoning
   ­ $48,500 HH income = $9.7M total HH income
   ­ $3.5M spending potential
   ­ $1.7M captured in Littleton (half)
   ­ $52,000 in sales tax




                          Broadstone Littleton Station   5
Property Tax
· Proposed Zoning Change
   ­ $45.5M estimated market value
   ­ $3.6M assessed value
   ­ $21,400 Property Tax (net of existing)
   ­ $183,000 to School District (net of existing)
· Existing Zoning
   ­ $28.2M estimated market value
   ­ $2.6M assessed value
   ­ $17,100 Property Tax
   ­ $146,500 to School District




                          Broadstone Littleton Station   6
Fees and Permits
· Proposed Zoning Change
   ­ $1.9M total
   ­ One time revenue
· Existing Zoning
   ­ $1.15M
   ­ One time revenue




                        Broadstone Littleton Station   7
Other Benefits
· Downtown residential
   ­ Some additional spending in Downtown businesses
· Walkable to transit
   ­ Fewer car trips
   ­ Street activity
   ­ Less pollution than a site with no transit




                          Broadstone Littleton Station   8
                          EXHIBIT C

        LEED Durability Inspection Checklist

                               &

LEED for Low-Rise Pilot Simplified Project Checklist
(Points achieved might not be identical to the attached checklist)
                                                               Durability Inspection Checklist Template
                                                                 (for prerequisite ID 2.1 & 2.2 and credit ID 2.3)
                                                             Builder Name:                              Alliance Partners
                                                             Project Team Leader:                       Andy Clay, Alliance Partners
                                                             Home Address:                              Littleton Blvd, Littleton, CO
For each section below, list durability strategies used to help mitigate the durability risks. Where necessary, add additional rows or remove strategies that are not relevant
Refer to the Example Durability Strategies page for sample strategies that may be applicable.

The project team must indicate where the strategy is included in the drawings, specification, or scopes of work, and the responsible project team member must sign-off that
the durability strategies were incorporated into the home.

For ID 2.3, the Green Rater must initial that the strategies were verified in the home. A minimum of 18 total strategies, not including those already included as LEED for
Homes prerequisites, must be included and verified for the credit to be awarded. These strategies should be focused on medium or high-risk areas.

                                                                                                             Location in                  Sign-off by Responsible Party
                                                                                                          Drawings, Specs,                        (initial below)
                            Durability Strategies by Issue Type
                                                                                                          and/or Scopes of              Prerequisite ID 2.2     Credit ID 2.3
                                                                                                               Work                       (Builder/trade)      (Green Rater)

Exterior Water / Moisture




Interior Water / Moisture
LEED for Homes Prerequisites (remove if not applicable)
 Nonpaper-faced backer board used in all tubs, showers, and spa areas. (see ID 2.1)
 Water-resistant flooring in the kitchen, bathroom, laundry rooms, and spa areas. (see ID 2.1)
 Water-resistant flooring within 3 feet of all exterior doors. (see ID 2.1)
 Drain and drain pan installed for any tank water heaters in or over living spaces. (see ID 2.1)
 Drain and drain pan OR single-throw supply valve installed for any clothes washers in or over living
 spaces. (see ID 2.1)
 Conventional clothes dryers exhausted directly to outdoors; Condensing clothes dryer has drain and
 drain pan. (see ID 2.1)
 Whole house ventilation and local kitchen and bathroom exhaust systems that comply with ASHRAE
 Std. 62.2 (see EQ 4.1 / 5.1)




Air Infiltration
LEED for Homes Prerequisites (remove if not applicable)
 Thermal bypass inspection checklist passed (see EA 1.1 / 2.1)




Interstitial Condensation
LEED for Homes Prerequisites (remove if not applicable)
 All local exhaust systems vented directly to the outdoors. (see EQ 5.1)
 Interstitial spaces are never used to supply or return forced air. (see EA 5.1)
 Duct leakage to the outdoors limited to 6 cfm / 100 sq.ft. (see EA 1.1 / 5.1)




Pests




Heat Loss
LEED for Homes Prerequisites (remove if not applicable)
 Climate zone 4-8: Exposed concrete slab edge insulated. (see EA 1.1 / 2.1)




Ultraviolet Radiation




     US Green Building Council                                                            Page 1 of 2                                                               6/14/2013
                                                       Durability Inspection Checklist Template
                                                         (for prerequisite ID 2.1 & 2.2 and credit ID 2.3)
                                                      Builder Name:                             Alliance Partners
                                                      Project Team Leader:                      Andy Clay, Alliance Partners
                                                      Home Address:                             Littleton Blvd, Littleton, CO

Natural Disasters




Other
LEED for Homes Prerequisites (remove if not applicable)
 Refrigerant charge test conducted. (see EA 11.1)




   Builder Declaration for ID prerequisite 2.1 & 2.2

 I hereby declare and affirm to USGBC that I have evaluated this project's durability risks,     Name:
 completed the Durability Risk Evaluation Form, and incorporated appropriate durability          Title:
 measures into the design to adequately address the moderate and high risks. The
 construction drawings and specifications have been updated accordingly, and the the             Signature:
 measures were verified to be completed appropriately.
                                                                                                 Date:

   Green Rater Declaration for ID credit 2.3
                                                                                                 Name:
 I hereby declare and affirm to USGBC that all of the above durability measures were verified
 as having been installed and/or incorporated into the home and home site. This signature is     Title:
 not an endorsement of the choice of durability measures or strategies installed, nor is it a    Signature:
 validation of the quality or workmanship of the construction or installation.
                                                                                                 Date:




    US Green Building Council                                                     Page 2 of 2                                   6/14/2013
                                                                      LEED for Homes Simplified Project Checklist
                            for Homes              Builder Name:                                Alliance Partners

                                                   Project Team Leader (if different):          Andy Clay, Alliance Partners

                                                   Home Address (Street/City/State):            Littleton Blvd, Littleton, CO


Project Description:                                                                                   Adjusted Certification Thresholds
    Building type: Multi-family                                 Project type: Multi-family De            Certified: 38.0                    Gold: 68.0

        # of units: 225                       Avg. Home Size Adjustment: -7                                 Silver: 53.0                 Platinum: 83.0


     Project Point Total                                                              Final Credit Category Total Points
         Prelim: 70.5 + 15 maybe pts                Final: 15.5                          ID: 0             SS:      4             EA: 11.5                  EQ:   0
     Certification Level                                                                 LL: 0             WE:      0             MR: 0                     AE:   0
         Prelim: Gold                               Final: Not Certified                           Minimum Point Thresholds Not Met for Final Rating

                                                                                                                                              70.5    15        15.5
                    date last updated :                                                                                            Max           Project Points
                      last updated by :                                                                                           Points       Preliminary    Final
     Innovation and Design Process (ID)                               (No Minimum Points Required)                                 Max        Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. Integrated Project Planning               1.1   Preliminary Rating                                                              Prereq
                                             1.2   Integrated Project Team                                                           1        1       0           0
                                             1.3   Professional Credentialed with Respect to LEED for Homes                          1        1       0           0
                                             1.4   Design Charrette                                                                  1        1       0           0
                                             1.5   Building Orientation for Solar Design                                             1        0       0           0
2. Durability Management                     2.1   Durability Planning                                                             Prereq
  Process                                    2.2   Durability Management                                                           Prereq
                                             2.3   Third-Party Durability Management Verification                                    3        3       0           0
3.Innovative or Regional                     3.1   Innovation #1                                                                     1        1       0           0
  Design                                     3.2   Innovation #2                                                                     1        1       0           0
                                             3.3   Innovation #3                                                                     1        1       0           0
                                             3.4   Innovation #4                                                                     1        1       0           0
                                                                                                     Sub-Total for ID Category:     11        10      0           0
     Location and Linkages (LL)                                    (No Minimum Points Required)                          OR        Max        Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. LEED ND                                   1     LEED for Neighborhood Development                                    LL2-6       10        0       0           0
2. Site Selection                            2     Site Selection                                                                    2        2       0           0
3. Preferred Locations                       3.1   Edge Development                                                     LL 3.2       1        0       0           0
                                             3.2   Infill                                                                            2        2       0           0
                                             3.3   Previously Developed                                                              1        1       0           0
4. Infrastructure                            4     Existing Infrastructure                                                           1        1       0           0
5. Community Resources/                      5.1   Basic Community Resources / Transit                              LL 5.2, 5.3      1        0       0           0
     Transit                                 5.2   Extensive Community Resources / Transit                            LL 5.3         2        0       0           0
                                             5.3   Outstanding Community Resources / Transit                                         3        3       0           0
6. Access to Open Space                      6     Access to Open Space                                                              1        1       0           0
                                                                                                     Sub-Total for LL Category:     10        10      0           0
     Sustainable Sites (SS)                                         (Minimum of 5 SS Points Required)                      OR      Max        Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. Site Stewardship                          1.1   Erosion Controls During Construction                                            Prereq
                                             1.2   Minimize Disturbed Area of Site                                                   1        1       0           0
2. Landscaping                               2.1   No Invasive Plants                                                              Prereq
                                             2.2   Basic Landscape Design                                               SS 2.5       2        2       0           0
                                             2.3   Limit Conventional Turf                                              SS 2.5       3        0       1           0
                                             2.4   Drought Tolerant Plants                                              SS 2.5       2        0       1           0
                                             2.5   Reduce Overall Irrigation Demand by at Least 20%                                  6        0       0           0
3. Local Heat Island Effects                 3     Reduce Local Heat Island Effects                                                  1        1       0           0
4. Surface Water                             4.1   Permeable Lot                                                                     4        0       1           0
     Management                              4.2   Permanent Erosion Controls                                                        1        1       0           0
                                             4.3   Management of Run-off from Roof                                                   2        0       2           0
5. Nontoxic Pest Control                     5     Pest Control Alternatives                                                         2       1.5     0.5          0
6. Compact Development                       6.1   Moderate Density                                                 SS 6.2, 6.3      2        0       0           0
                                             6.2   High Density                                                      SS 6.3          3        0       0           0
                                             6.3   Very High Density                                                                 4        4       0           4
                                                                                                    Sub-Total for SS Category:      22       10.5    5.5          4




     U.S. Green Building Council                                              Page 1 of 3                                                           January 1, 2011
                                LEED for Homes Simplified Project Checklist (continued)
                                                                                                                            Max         Project Points
                                                                                                                           Points     Preliminary    Final
     Water Efficiency (WE)                                     (Minimum of 3 WE Points Required)                OR          Max     Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. Water Reuse                          1.1   Rainwater Harvesting System                                      WE 1.3        4       0       0          0
                                        1.2   Graywater Reuse System                                           WE 1.3        1       0       0          0
                                        1.3   Use of Municipal Recycled Water System                                         3       0       0          0
2. Irrigation System                    2.1   High Efficiency Irrigation System                                WE 2.3        3       3       0          0
                                        2.2   Third Party Inspection                                           WE 2.3        1       1       0          0
                                        2.3   Reduce Overall Irrigation Demand by at Least 45%                               4       0       0          0
3. Indoor Water Use                     3.1   High-Efficiency Fixtures and Fittings                                          3       1       0          0
                                        3.2   Very High Efficiency Fixtures and Fittings                                     6       4       0          0
                                                                                              Sub-Total for WE Category:    15       9       0          0
     Energy and Atmosphere (EA)                                (Minimum of 0 EA Points Required)                OR          Max     Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. Optimize Energy Performance          1.1   Performance of ENERGY STAR for Homes                                         Prereq
                                        1.2   Exceptional Energy Performance                                                34      11.5     2         11.5
7. Water Heating                        7.1   Efficient Hot Water Distribution                                               2       0       0          0
                                        7.2   Pipe Insulation                                                                1       0       0          0
11. Residential Refrigerant            11.1   Refrigerant Charge Test                                                      Prereq
     Management                        11.2   Appropriate HVAC Refrigerants                                                  1       0       0          0
                                                                                              Sub-Total for EA Category:    38      11.5     2         11.5
     Materials and Resources          (MR)                       (Minimum of 2 MR Points Required)              OR          Max     Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. Material-Efficient Framing           1.1   Framing Order Waste Factor Limit                                             Prereq
                                        1.2   Detailed Framing Documents                                       MR 1.5        1       1       0          0
                                        1.3   Detailed Cut List and Lumber Order                               MR 1.5        1       1       0          0
                                        1.4   Framing Efficiencies                                             MR 1.5        3       3       0          0
                                        1.5   Off-site Fabrication                                                           4       0       0          0
2. Environmentally Preferable           2.1   FSC Certified Tropical Wood                                                  Prereq
  Products                              2.2   Environmentally Preferable Products                                            8      2.5     3.5         0
3. Waste Management                     3.1   Construction Waste Management Planning                                       Prereq
                                        3.2   Construction Waste Reduction                                                   3       2       0          0
                                                                                              Sub-Total for MR Category:    16      9.5     3.5         0
     Indoor Environmental Quality (EQ)                     (Minimum of 6 EQ Points Required)                    OR          Max     Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. ENERGY STAR with IAP                 1     ENERGY STAR with Indoor Air Package                                           13       0       0          0
2. Combustion Venting                   2.1   Basic Combustion Venting Measures                                 EQ 1       Prereq
                                        2.2   Enhanced Combustion Venting Measures                              EQ 1         2       2       0          0
3. Moisture Control                     3     Moisture Load Control                                             EQ 1         1       0       0          0
4. Outdoor Air Ventilation              4.1   Basic Outdoor Air Ventilation                                     EQ 1       Prereq
                                        4.2   Enhanced Outdoor Air Ventilation                                               2       0       0          0
                                        4.3   Third-Party Performance Testing                                   EQ 1         1       0       0          0
5. Local Exhaust                        5.1   Basic Local Exhaust                                               EQ 1       Prereq
                                        5.2   Enhanced Local Exhaust                                                         1       0       1          0
                                        5.3   Third-Party Performance Testing                                                1       0       1          0
6. Distribution of Space                6.1   Room-by-Room Load Calculations                                    EQ 1       Prereq
  Heating and Cooling                   6.2   Return Air Flow / Room by Room Controls                           EQ 1         1       0       0          0
                                        6.3   Third-Party Performance Test / Multiple Zones                     EQ 1         2       0       2          0
7. Air Filtering                        7.1   Good Filters                                                      EQ 1       Prereq
                                        7.2   Better Filters                                                   EQ 7.3        1       0       0          0
                                        7.3   Best Filters                                                                   2       0       0          0
8. Contaminant Control                  8.1   Indoor Contaminant Control during Construction                    EQ 1         1       1       0          0
                                        8.2   Indoor Contaminant Control                                                     2       0       0          0
                                        8.3   Preoccupancy Flush                                                EQ 1         1       1       0          0
9. Radon Protection                     9.1   Radon-Resistant Construction in High-Risk Areas                   EQ 1       Prereq
                                        9.2   Radon-Resistant Construction in Moderate-Risk Areas               EQ 1         1       0       0          0
10. Garage Pollutant Protection        10.1   No HVAC in Garage                                                EQ 1        Prereq
                                       10.2   Minimize Pollutants from Garage                                EQ 1, 10.4      2       2       0          0
                                       10.3   Exhaust Fan in Garage                                          EQ 1, 10.4      1       1       0          0
                                       10.4   Detached Garage or No Garage                                     EQ 1          3       0       0          0
                                                                                              Sub-Total for EQ Category:    21       7       4          0
     Awareness and Education (AE)                              (Minimum of 0 AE Points Required)                            Max     Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. Education of the                     1.1   Basic Operations Training                                                    Prereq
     Homeowner or Tenant                1.2   Enhanced Training                                                              1       1       0          0
                                        1.3   Public Awareness                                                               1       1       0          0
2. Education of Building
  Manager                               2     Education of Building Manager                                                  1       1       0          0

                                                                                              Sub-Total for AE Category:     3       3       0          0




     U.S. Green Building Council                                          Page 2 of 3                                                      January 1, 2011
                                                                      LEED for Homes Simplified Project Checklist
                                                        Addendum: Prescriptive Approach for Energy and Atmosphere (EA) Credits


                                                                                                                            Max            Project Points
Points cannot be earned in both the Prescriptive (below) and the Performance Approach (pg 2) of the EA section.            Points     Preliminary        Final
     Energy and Atmosphere (EA)                                  (No Minimum Points Required)                      OR       Max     Y/Pts Maybe     No      Y/Pts
2. Insulation                             2.1   Basic Insulation                                                           Prereq
                                          2.2   Enhanced Insulation                                                          2       0        0             0
3. Air Infiltration                       3.1   Reduced Envelope Leakage                                                   Prereq
                                          3.2   Greatly Reduced Envelope Leakage                                             2       0        0             0
                                          3.3   Minimal Envelope Leakage                                          EA 3.2     3       0        0             0
4. Windows                                4.1   Good Windows                                                               Prereq
                                          4.2   Enhanced Windows                                                             2       0        0             0
                                          4.3   Exceptional Windows                                               EA 4.2     3       0        0             0
5. Heating and Cooling                    5.1   Reduced Distribution Losses                                                Prereq
     Distribution System                  5.2   Greatly Reduced Distribution Losses                                          2       0        0             0
                                          5.3   Minimal Distribution Losses                                       EA 5.2     3       0        0             0
6. Space Heating and Cooling              6.1   Good HVAC Design and Installation                                          Prereq
     Equipment                            6.2   High-Efficiency HVAC                                                         2       0        0             0
                                          6.3   Very High Efficiency HVAC                                         EA 6.2     4       0        0             0
7. Water Heating                          7.1   Efficient Hot Water Distribution                                             2       0        0             0
                                          7.2   Pipe Insulation                                                              1       0        0             0
                                          7.3   Efficient Domestic Hot Water Equipment                                       3       0        0             0
8. Lighting                               8.1   ENERGY STAR Lights                                                         Prereq
                                          8.2   Improved Lighting                                                            2       0        0             0
                                          8.3   Advanced Lighting Package                                         EA 8.2     3       0        0             0
9. Appliances                             9.1   High-Efficiency Appliances                                                   2       0        0             0
                                          9.2   Water-Efficient Clothes Washer                                               1       0        0             0
10. Renewable Energy                      10    Renewable Energy System                                                     10       0        0             0
11. Residential Refrigerant              11.1   Refrigerant Charge Test                                                    Prereq
  Management                             11.2   Appropriate HVAC Refrigerants                                                1       0        0             0
                                                                                              Sub-Total for EA Category:    38      11.5      2          11.5




     U.S. Green Building Council                                          Page 3 of 3                                                       January 1, 2011
ZONING COMPARISON CHART
                                                                              ZONING COMPARISON CHART - BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION
DETAILS                                       MAX. ALLOWED UNDER EXISTING ZONING                                      EXISTING                         PROPOSED
ADDRESS                                       2100 & 2120 W. Littleton Blvd.                                          5759 S. Bemis Street             Area including 2100 & 2120 W. Littleton Blvd. & 5759 S. Bemis Street
ACERAGE                                       2.94                                                                    0.14                             4.5 (includes 1.41 railroad right-of-way parcel)
ZONING                                        B-2 EXISTING ZONING                                                     R-3 EXISTING ZONING              PROPOSED PD PLAN RESIDENTIAL
USES ALLOWED                                  Per B-2, Residential, Commercial, Retail Mix                            Single Family Detached           Multifamily Residential
MINIMUM OPEN SPACE                            20%                                                                     50%                              30%
PARKING RATIO                                 Various Per B-2                                                         2 Per Dwelling unit              1.5 Per Dwelling Unit
MINIMUM SET BACK                              0 Feet                                                                  20 Feet                          Varies between 15 Feet and 30 Feet
MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT                       Not limited by zone district                                            30 Feet                          48 Feet
MAXIMUM FAR                                   2:1                                                                     N/A                              N/A
MAXIMUM DENSITY                               46 to 69 (based on unit size)                                           6.7                              50
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT                          5-story office building development                                     no change to existing building   Market Rate Apartment Building
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT DETAILS                  mix of commercial and retail                                            single family detached home      225 Unit Luxury Multifamily Apartment Community
PROJECTED PARKING REQUIREMENT                 586 spaces                                                              2 spaces                         338 spaces
PROJECTED POPULATION                          902 employees                                                           3 residents                      404 residents
PROJECTED POPULATION OF SCHOOL AGE CHILDREN   n/a                                                                     1 child                          65 children
TRAFFIC GENERATED                             2,050 daily vehicle trips                                               9.5 daily vehicle trips          1,346 daily vehicle trips
ADDITIONAL PARK LAND REQUIRED                 n/a                                                                     $0                               $573,750
AVAILABILITY OF SERVICES                      8" sewer tap and 3" water tap                                           N/A                              8" sewer tap and 3" water tap
PROPOSED ZONING COMPARISON CHART:
Zoning Requirements Existing Zoning District:                                   Proposed Zoning Dist.:
Uses                Various Per B-2, Single family detached in R-3              Multifamily Residential
Min. Open Space     20% B-2, 50% R-3                                            30%
Parking Ratios      Various Per B-2, 2 per dwelling unit in R-3                 1.5 per unit
Min. Bldg Setbacks  0' B-2, 20' R-3                                             Varies 15'-30'
Max. Bldg Height    Not Limited for B-2, 30' for R-3                            48'
Max. F.A.R.         2:1 for B-2 and N/A for R-3                                 N/A
Max. Density        N/A for B-2, 6.7/acre                                       50/acre

PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT DETAILS:

1. Under the existing zoning district for the B-2 parcel (2100 and 2120 W. Littleton Blvd.), Alliance
would propose a 5-story, 100% commercial building. Under that scenario, the following set of data
would be projected:

        Building Calculations: 379,124 SF
        75,825 SF x 5 stories = 379,124 SF
        13,124 SF of retail
        156,000 SF of office
        210,000 SF of parking (603 spaces total or approx. 120 per floor)

        Projected parking requirement: 586 spaces
        Retail - one space per 200 SF = 66 spaces
        Office - one space per 300 SF = 520 spaces

        Projected population: 902 employees
        902 employees = 150 SF per employee at 80% building efficiency (169,142 x 80% = 135,314/150)

        Projected population of school-age children: N/A

        Traffic generation: 2,050 daily vehicle trips****

        Additional park land required: N/A

        Availability of services:
        Based on the SF of our proposed development under the B-2 zoning scenario, we would
        anticipate an 8" sewer tap and a 3" water tap.
2. Under the existing zoning district for the R-3 parcel (5759 S. Bemis St.), Alliance would keep the
existing building, a single family residence. Under that scenario, the following set of data would be
projected:

        Projected population: 3

        Projected population of school-age children: 1

        Traffic generation: 9.5 daily vehicle trips
        9.5 X 1 = 9.5 daily vehicle trips***

        Additional park land required: $0
        Since Alliance would not do anything with the R-3 lot, there would be no park impact fees
        generated.

        Availability of services: N/A

3. Under the proposed PD - residential zone district (the combined B-2 and R-3 parcels), Alliance is
proposing a 225 unit, 4 story apartment building with an internal above-grade parking structure and a
basement condition on a portion of the site. Under that scenario, the following set of data would be
projected:

        Building Calculations:
        53,269 SF x 4 = 213,075 SF
        213,075/947 average unit size = 225 units

        Projected parking requirements: 338
        225 units x 1.5 = 338 residential parking spaces

        Projected population: 404 residents
        225 units x 41% = 92 1 bedrooms averaging 1.5 individuals per unit
        225 units x 59% = 133 2 bedrooms averaging 2 individual per unit

        Projected population of school-age children: 65 school age children
        .29 x 225 = 73

        Traffic generation: 1,346 daily vehicle trips****

        Additional park land required: $573,750
        The city code requires payment of park fees in the amount of $2,550 per unit for multifamily
        residential.

        Availability of city services:
        Based on the SF of our development under the proposed PD Residential zoning scenario, we
        would anticipate an 8" sewer tap and a 3" water tap.
Sources:
*Obrinksy, Ph. D Mark and Stein, Debra. NMHC White Papers "Overcoming Opposition to Mutlifamily
Rental Housing", 2007.
** Transit Cooperative Research Program, TCRP Report 128, Effects of TOD Housing, Population, and
Travel, 2008.
*** Edwards, Mary. Traffic Impact Analysis, Community Guide to Development Impact Analysis.
**** Felsburg, Holt, Ullevig-
RESPONSES TO REFERRAL COMMENTS
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS
DECLARATION OF PUBLIC POLICY/
       JUSTIFICATION
                                BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION PD PLAN REZONING
                                               Case No. PDP12-0003
                                                 August 12, 2013


                                         Declaration of Public Policy for Rezoning

The Declaration of Public Policy for Rezoning states that the official zoning map should not be amended unless the
amendment is consistent with the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan, and promotes the general welfare of
the community. Alliance's request to rezone the 4.5 acres site known as 2100 & 2120 W. Littleton Boulevard (currently
zoned B-2 Commercial Business) and 5759 S Bemis Street (currently zoned R-3 Residential) to a Residential use Planned
Development will uphold the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan, and promote the general welfare of the
community in the following ways:

Community-Wide Goals & Policies of the Comprehensive Plan
Goal 1: Preserve Littleton's unique identity by protecting historic structures and emphasizing Littleton's distinct social
and economic heritage with consideration giving to:
A. View preservation;
B. Landscape preservation;
C. Topography;
D. Human qualities;
E. Encouragement of variety of housing stock and types of people.
MEETS GOAL:
        a. View Preservation ­ The current B-2 zoning contains no height limits or setbacks and has a FAR
        of 2:1. Alliance's proposed PD Plan will set an overall height limit of 49' feet. Setbacks will range from 15' to
        30' feet depending on the elevation and floor level (see PD Plan cover sheet for exact measurements). To
        avoid the building reading like a long wall along the west elevation, Alliance has redesigned and broken the
        building into two distinct masses. The building fronting Littleton Boulevard will be of a lower scale in order to
        preserve solar access to the street and not distract from the historic Courthouse. By breaking the building into
        two distinct masses, views west of the mountains and Downtown Littleton will be better preserved from the
        vantage points along Bemis Street.

        b. Landscape Preservation ­ The current site is comprised of grasses and trees. Alliance will make best
        efforts to save and relocate trees during construction. Street trees will be planted at maximum 35'
        intervals along both street frontages. Bemis Street will receive a continuous tree lawn that is a minimum
        of 8' wide. The overall landscaping shall be intensive and provide year round interest.

        c. Topography ­ Due to the sloping grade change on the west portion of the site, Alliance has the
        opportunity to utilize the grade change and create walk-out basement level units that can add additional
        residential units without increasing the overall height of the building. The units will have direct access to
        the planned trail that runs on the west portion of the site and will create great pedestrian connectivity.

        d. Human Qualities ­ The proposed development will attract residents to Downtown Littleton who will be
        able to access all the amenities that historic Main Street has to offer without getting in a car and adding
        to the parking burden. The development will be designed to LEED Gold guidelines.

        e. Encouragement of variety of housing stock and types of people - The planned "Class A" multifamily
        apartment community will attract young professionals, emerging families, and empty nesters with a unit
        mix of 41% one-bedrooms and 59% two-bedrooms. There are no "Class A" apartment communities in
                                                                                                                 1|Page
        Downtown Littleton that are over 50 units in size. With only one Class A rental option available in all of Littleton,
        there is a strong demand for a higher density luxury rental community within walking distance to Downtown
        Littleton. The rezoning application includes parameters that will produce a finished luxury, "Class A" product
        comparable to what Alliance has built in comparable locations within the Denver Metro Area.

Goal 2: Develop Littleton's economic independence and reemphasize Downtown as Littleton's economic and social
center.
MEETS GOAL:
        A 225-unit residential apartment community within walking distance to Historic Main Street will develop
        Littleton's economic dependence and reemphasize Downtown as Littleton's economic and social center.
        Future residents will dine, shop, and enjoy entertainment in Downtown Littleton. Approximately 400
        residents of a target demographic with statistically higher discretionary income will walk the short 500
        feet distance to historic Downtown Littleton to support the local business community without adding an
        additional burden to local parking. Additionally, current zoning would require retail/commercial space that could
        diminish Downtown Littleton as an economic and social center. Although it was stated that the current office
        building located on the site has 11 businesses and is 100% leased, it should be noted that the building is 50%
        owner occupied. The current owner continues the market to space, but due to the lack of demand he continues
        to utilize the space rather than have it sit vacant. An economic analysis was completed which highlights the
        commercial vacancy rate within a one mile radius of the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station is approximately
        30%. Rather than create addition office space, the site could generate more revenue for the City of Littleton
        as a residential development (see attached economic analysis). Proposed rents will range from $1,150 to $1,899
        a month and will require average household incomes of $74,400, assuming 25% of income is spend on rent

Goal 3: Provide adequate public transportation, both within Littleton itself and as links to other communities in the
metropolitan area.
MEETS GOAL:
        The proximity of the site to the Downtown Littleton light rail station will encourage use of public transportation
        among residents. Rather than traveling via car, our residents will be able to take advantage of the convenience
        of the light rail station when commuting to other communities within the metropolitan area or traveling within
        Littleton itself. The Regional Demand Analysis & TOD Market Analysis produced by the City of Denver in 2008
        forecasted the average household per station along the southwest corridor would be 765 between 2005 and
        2030. Station areas along the Southeast and Central lines have exceeded initial baseline projections due to land
        availability within the station areas. Due to lack of developable land within station areas the Southwest line has
        yet to approach densities anywhere near the projected demand. While 700 units at Littleton Station may not be
        attainable, this application provides an opportunity to increase density at this station in a strategic and effective
        way.

Goal 4: Acquire and maintain sufficient park, recreation land, open space and trails to maintain a proper balance
between developed and recreational land use and to make recreational opportunities easily available to all residents.
MEETS GOAL:
       Our site will provide not less than 30% unobstructed open space, but will also contain a trail connection on the
       land adjacent to the west elevation of our building ensuring recreational opportunities are easily available to all
       residents. The intent is for the trail running on our property to link up with the proposed trail that parallel to the
       east of the rail road tracks. During the development process Alliance will also work with the City to pursue ways
       to enhance a portion of the floodplain for recreational use enjoyed by all residents in the area. Residents of our
       proposed project will also enjoy easily available recreational opportunities provided by the Douglas H. Buck
       Recreation center located just north of the property on W. Powers Avenue.

Goal 5: Preserve existing neighborhood values while encouraging any new development to make the most efficient
use of land, resulting in the highest possible standard of living and the best use of natural resources.
MEETS GOAL:
                                                                                                                 2|Page
        The building design will take into account the most efficient use of the 4.5 acre site. The parking structure will be
        completely enclosed by the building and therefore not visible from the street. Other design elements that will
        result in the highest possible standard of living and best use of natural resources includes; providing historic
        views, mountain views, horizontal emphasis, and interface of indoor and outdoor spaces. The proposed project
        will also preserve existing neighborhood values sited in the Sterne Park Neighborhood plan, which will be
        expanded upon later in this narrative. LEED Gold guidelines from the USGBC will insure the community is
        designed to retain value and be environmentally sustainable (see attached LEED durability checklist).

Goal 6: Reduce community and individual property loss from flooding through better storm drainage planning and
improvement of existing drainage facilities.
MEETS GOAL:
        The proposed project will capture the site runoff and convey the runoff to a central water quality pond. Runoff
        from the water quality pond will be released to the existing storm drain facilities adjacent to the site. Alliances'
        team has worked closely with the City of Littleton Engineering to control the storm release, so that runoff from
        the proposed development passes through the adjacent storm facilities prior to the peak flow time of
        concentration within the adjacent facilities.

Goal 7: Promote and maintain an attractive and healthful living environment for present and future Littleton
residents.
MEETS GOAL:
        Benefits of present residents:
           · Alliance is proposing to install a traffic signal at the intersection of W Littleton Boulevard and S Bemis
                Street which will greatly improve the safety of pedestrian and vehicular circulation. Sterne Park
                residents will gain improved pedestrian access across Littleton Boulevard to the Buck Rec Center and to
                Downtown Littleton.
           · Alliance will widen the sidewalk along the W Alamo Avenue Bridge. This was noted as a neighborhood
                concern, as the sidewalk is currently too narrow and becomes un-usable in the winter with excessive
                snow accumulation.
           · Alliance will provide $573,750 in park impact fees that could be used to enhance the flood plain located
                to the south of the site and also enhance Sterne Park amenities.
           · Alliance will build a trail to the south and west of the site, which current residents can utilize to access
                Downtown Littleton
           · View preservation west through the break in the building mass along Bemis Street and along the west
                elevation.
        Benefit to future residents:
           · Residents at the proposed project will be able to enjoy an attractive and healthful living environment.
           · Residents will have access to historic Downtown Littleton for shopping and entertainment
           · Residents will be encouraged to utilize the public transportation as they will be in walking distance to
                the Downtown Littleton light rail station and bus stop.
           · Residents will be close to ample outdoor space for their recreational enjoyment given the proximity to
                Sterne Park and the S. Platte River Trail system.
           · Residents will be future Littleton home buyers.
           · The project shall include at least 1,200 square feet in the area of Bemis Street and Littleton Boulevard
                of retail café or similar neighborhood scale retail and will be accentuated with additional outdoor
                patio space. The space will be actively marketed by a commercial brokerage firm for at least three
                years from opening. At any time the space is not leased it may be used as a private amenity to the
                apartment residents. The space may also be reserved at the property owner's sole discretion to
                accommodate community or neighborhood meetings and gatherings.




                                                                                                                 3|Page
Goal 8: Encourage prudent conservation measures that will project and assure Littleton's air, water, energy, and land
resources for the future.
MEETS GOAL:
        The proposed project will be built to LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Gold design
        standards and will incorporate the latest design goals to ensure sustainable development. Participation in the
        LEED process demonstrates leadership, innovation, environmental stewardship, and social responsibility. LEED
        provides building owners with the tools they need to immediately impact their buildings performance and
        bottom line, while providing healthy indoor spaces for a building's occupants. LEED certified buildings are
        designed to reduce waste sent to landfills, conserve energy and water, be healthier and safer for occupants,
        and reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions.

Housing Policies
Policy 6: Prohibit discrimination in housing by continuing to enforce fair housing laws.
MEETS POLICY:
        Alliance Residential Company is committed to full compliance with Fair Housing laws which prohibit
        discrimination in housing because of race, color, national origin, religion, gender, familial status and disability.
        Alliance also complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable accommodations
        for persons with disabilities. Reasonable is defined as: modifications to an apartment home or common area at
        the resident's expense if the modification is necessary for the disabled person to enjoy use of the apartment
        home and community. Where it is reasonable, the manager of the apartment community may permit
        modification and changes to be made if the disabled person agrees to restore the property to its original
        condition upon leaving the property. Examples of such modifications would be the installation of handrails or
        special door-opening devices, the installation of special signal devices to assist a hearing impaired person, or the
        reservation of a handicapped parking space for a person who must use a wheelchair for mobility. Alliance hires
        a third party consulting service to review all construction documents and perform site visits to verify the
        compliance with ADA, FHA, and Title 9.

Policy 11: Encourage known energy efficient construction techniques in all types of housings.
MEETS POLICY:
        The proposed development will be designed to LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Gold
        guidelines and will incorporate the latest design goals to ensure a sustainable, energy efficient development.
        There are only two LEED Gold certified residential apartment buildings in the entire Metro Denver area. This
        would be the first LEED Gold building in Littleton, including those projects that are currently under construction
        or proposed.

Land Use Policies
Policy 3: New development in the interior of established neighborhoods, not adjacent to arterial streets, should
respect the existing densities and land uses of the neighborhoods in order that character is well preserved.
MEETS POLICY:
        Alliance believes that multifamily residential is an appropriate transitional use. Based on comments received
        from the neighborhood and staff, Alliance has reduced the development from 325 units to 225 units, so the
        lesser building mass and scale will better preserve the existing character of the neighborhood. Alliance is
        committed to continue communication with the neighborhood through the site plan process and during
        construction.

Policy 8: Environmentally sensitive areas, such as floodplain, steep slopes, etc., shall be protected from development
in order to prevent adverse effect to these areas.
DOES NOT CONFLICT:
        The floodplain to the south of the site will remain protected from the development.



                                                                                                                 4|Page
Policy 9: The City shall continue to encourage that energy and environmental concerns be taken into consideration
with all new residential and commercial developments.
MEETS POLICY:
         The proposed project will be built to LEED Gold guidelines and will incorporate the latest design goals to ensure
         a sustainable, energy efficient development.

Transportation Policies
Policy 1: Improve transportation facilities and traffic controls to provide safe and efficient traffic circulation.
MEETS POLICY:
        Alliance is proposing to install a traffic signal at the corner of W. Littleton Boulevard and S. Bemis Street. During
        meetings with the neighborhood residents voiced concerns regarding how dangerous it is to try and cross
        Littleton Boulevard at S. Bemis Street. The majority of feedback received was how residents would welcome a
        traffic signal, which would make the intersection much safer and improve both vehicular and pedestrian traffic
        circulation.

Policy 2: Provide traffic controls on internal residential and collector streets to improve safety and to maintain proper
levels of traffic speed and volume.
MEETS POLICY:
         Feedback from the neighborhood residents has caused us to pursue the option of working with the City to install
         a `No Right Turn' sign when exiting our proposed parking garage so residents would be forced to turn left and
         head north to W. Littleton Boulevard. There will also be a built up curb that would make right turns very
         inconvenient. This would help assure the local neighborhood that traffic volume of cars traveling south on S.
         Bemis Street would not dramatically increase due to our proposed development. We will also design the
         entrance/exit in a way that will prohibit cars traveling north on Bemis to enter the development by turning left.
         All access to the development will be right turn only access when traveling south on Bemis Street from Littleton
         Boulevard. Another solution recommend by staff to reduce traffic impacts was to reduce the total unit count.
         Alliance responded to this recommendation and believes the reduction of units from 325 to 225 will also help
         reduce the potential traffic along Bemis Street. Additionally, Alliance will implement measures to reduce
         southbound traffic on Bemis Street to include verification by staff that the residential lease agreement
         includes provisions to discourage resident vehicle access to the site from the south via Bemis Street, or exit
         the site southbound on Bemis Street. Enforcement of the lease provision is the sole responsibility of the
         Developer. Except, however, that no residential lease agreement entered into by the Developer shall create
         any third party beneficiary in the City or any other party, and the Developer shall not be liable to the City or
         any other party for the Developer's failure to enforce any residential lease agreement.


Policy 5: Limit direct access on arterial streets to preserve the safety and traffic carrying capabilities of these
roadways.
        See response to Policy 2.

Urban Design Policies
Policy 4: The City should strengthen the identity of entrances into Littleton.
MEETS POLICY.
        The proposed project would serve as an additional identification element to welcome residents to Downtown
        Littleton while encouraging an active pedestrian presence. The corner elements of the building mass along
        Littleton Blvd. are required to be highly articulated in materials and details even as they are subdued in mass.


Downtown Neighborhood Plan
Policy LU-10: Development adjacent to the identified iconic structures should respect and not detract from their
prominence;

                                                                                                                 5|Page
Policy LU-10a: Require that the height, scale, building placement, and other design elements of new construction,
expansion, or other property changes respect and do not overwhelm iconic structures. Employ techniques such as
building setbacks and step-backs for upper stories, and further detail that direction in the Downtown Design
Standards and Guidelines.
MEETS POLICY:
        It is important for the development to not detract from the prominence of the historic Courthouse which is an
        iconic structure. The development has been divided into two building masses. The building mass across from the
        historic courthouse is a lower scale mass, with majority of density being relegated to the southern part of the
        site. Brick will be incorporated at the northeast corner of the building façade that respectfully matches the
        courthouse but does not detract from its prominence. The low scale building mass directly across from the
        courthouse is required to step back significantly after the third story. The resultant mass will accord due
        deference to the historic structure and will also preserve solar access for the street.


Policy LU-12: Development in areas that are outside of Downtown but immediately adjacent to Downtown gateways
should be planned with consideration of their proximity to Downtown and their potential role and impact on
Downtown. The four gateways are located at Main Street/Littleton Boulevard, Main Street/Alamo/Santa Fe Drive,
Prince Street/Santa Fe Drive, and Downtown Littleton light rail station;
Policy LU-12a: Plan new development immediately adjacent to Downtown gateways so that they improve connections
to Downtown, function as part of a gateway to Downtown, follow the same design standards, and are consistent with
the Downtown Neighborhood Plan.
MEETS POLICY:
        The western building façade faces and engages with Littleton Downtown and should effectively respond to the
        Downtown area in scale and proportion. This is where the tallest elements of the building design are located.
        The overall building mass is broken up into two building masses which will provide respite to the long facade.
        Furthermore, the two building masses will be sub divided into several sub masses imposing upon the façade a
        scale more reminiscent of a typical Downtown street front with varying planes and parapet heights implying
        several buildings rather than one long one.

        In order to create a development that is engaged and connected with the larger neighborhood, it is vitally
        important to make real connection to the pedestrian network with active ground floor spaces. To this end, the
        parking garage has been surrounded on all sides by dwelling units, thus preventing a large dead mass that
        usually results from an exposed parking garage. The ground floor units all around the building will connect to the
        pedestrian network creating a real connection with Downtown, enhancing safety, and fostering social
        interaction.

Sterne Park Neighborhood Goals
Goal 1: Preserve the unique character of the neighborhood and general "quality of life" aspects, especially the mix of
architectural styles, mature trees, and quiet atmosphere of the residential areas.
MEETS GOAL:
        The building design will take into account the existing architectural styles and quiet atmosphere of the
        residential area. The elevation fronting Bemis Street will step back after the third floor to respond to the
        adjacent residential area. This in turn will create a pedestrian feel, look, and relationship to the neighboring
        residences. Walkout residences on the first floor along Bemis, Littleton Boulevard, and the west side of the
        building will additionally establish a pedestrian scale and feel. The project will have an 8 foot tree lawn on the
        east side of S. Bemis Street. To the greatest extent possible, we will preserve mature trees on the property or
        replace any trees that must be removed during construction. Our property management team will be on site or
        on call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to prevent noise violations per the City of Littleton's regulations on that
        matter. Additionally, the interior courtyard will reduce noise impact on Bemis neighbors. Alliance has responded
        to comments from City staff and neighbors by reducing the size and scale of the project. We feel the reduction
        in scale conforms to the neighborhood given the transitional nature of this site. Alliance believes the installation
                                                                                                                6|Page
        of a traffic signal will address any traffic loading issues on Bemis Street. It is also very likely that many of the
        residents will utilize light rail to commute to work. Alliance believes the proposed residential development
        will better preserve the character of the neighborhood more than a use-by-right development which would
        be built on the site today.

Goal 2: Improve transportation facilities and traffic controls only to the extent necessary to improve safety and to
provide good traffic circulation within the neighborhood.
MEETS GOAL:
        A traffic study was conducted which will address traffic controls and provide recommendations to improve
        traffic circulation within the neighborhood. Alliance is proposing to install a traffic signal at the intersection of W
        Littleton Boulevard and S Bemis Street. The improved safety of the Bemis/W. Littleton intersection will
        encourage more residents west of the development to walk Downtown, rather than take their cars to avoid the
        difficult and sometimes dangerous intersection. We have positioned the entry/exit into our parking garage well
        to the south of the W. Littleton Boulevard with the hopes that there will be enough space on S. Bemis Street to
        accommodate everyone leaving the garage to turn left and head north on S. Bemis Street.

Goal 3: Prohibit encroachment of commercial uses into established residential areas by limiting such uses to existing
commercial districts such as Littleton Boulevard.
DOES NOT CONFLICT:
        A rezoning application has been submitted to allow for residential use on a site that was zoned for both
        residential (5759 Bemis) and B-2 commercial (2100 and 2120 W Littleton). The potential retail space
        recommended by staff will be located at the corner of Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street.

Goal 4: Preserve existing parks and open space and encourage new or expanded recreational areas to be developed to
provide natural, passive recreation opportunities.
DOES NOT CONFLICT:
        There are no existing parks and or open space on the current site. There is a large flood plain to the south of
        the site, which will remain. However, we would like to propose improved access to the flood plain land as a
        potential way to offset our park impact fees, so residents and neighbors may better enjoy the open space.

Goal 5: Improve enforcement of the City's environmental codes to assure neighborhood preservation through good
maintenance, adherence to noise ordinance, and crime prevention.
MEETS GOAL:
        Alliance Residential will not only develop and build the project, but will manage the project upon completion.
        Alliance is the 15th largest management company in the U.S. and our size is a testament to our scope and depth
        of industry knowledge. The on-site staff will monitor and oversee the continued maintenance of the property.
        We can ensure adherence to noise ordinances through our lease agreements and prior to signing a lease, all
        potential residents must pass the necessary background and credit checks.

Transportation Policies
Policy 1: That traffic controls in internal residential and collector streets be maintained or improved to improve safety
and to prevent further increases in speed and volume of traffic.
MEETS POLICY:
        Feedback from the neighborhood residents has caused us to pursue the option of working with the City to install
        a `No Right Turn' sign when exiting our proposed parking garage so residents would be forced to turn left and
        head north to W. Littleton Boulevard. There will also be a built up curb that would make right turns very
        inconvenient. This would help assure the local neighborhood that traffic volume of cars traveling south on S.
        Bemis Street would not dramatically increase due to our proposed development. We will also design the
        entrance/exit in a way that will prohibit cars traveling north on Bemis to enter the development by turning left.
        All access to the development will be right turn only access when traveling south on Bemis Street from Littleton
        Boulevard. Another solution recommend by staff to reduce traffic impacts was to reduce the total unit count.
                                                                                                                   7|Page
       Alliance responded to this recommendation and believes the reduction of units from 325 to 225 will also help
       reduce the potential traffic along Bemis Street. Additionally, Alliance will implement measures to reduce
       southbound traffic on Bemis Street to include verification by staff that the residential lease agreement
       includes provisions to discourage resident vehicle access to the site from the south via Bemis Street, or exit
       the site southbound on Bemis Street. Enforcement of the lease provision is the sole responsibility of the
       Developer. Except, however, that no residential lease agreement entered into by the Developer shall create
       any third party beneficiary in the City or any other party, and the Developer shall not be liable to the City or
       any other party for the Developer's failure to enforce any residential lease agreement.

Land Policies
Policy 1: That development of commercial uses south of Littleton Boulevard, beyond that which is presently zoned
commercial, in residential areas of the neighborhood, be prohibited.
DOES NOT CONFLICT:
        The site is currently zoned B2 and R-3 residential and we are requesting a residential use Planned Development.

Policy 2: That emphasis in the decision-making process be placed on the preservation of the neighborhood as a sound,
desirable residential area.
MEETS POLICY:
        Alliance is committed to continue communicating with the neighborhood through the design and construction
        process. The process to finalize the architectural, site and landscape design portions of the subsequent site
        development plan shall include adjoining property owners and the Planning Board. Any review or
        recommendations resulting from this process will be advisory only and may not supersede the discretion of
        City planning staff in reviewing and approving any site development plan submitted under the Broadstone at
        Littleton Planned Development plan. Goals of the review shall include, but not be limited to:

       a.      The structure appropriate respects the importance of the historic courthouse located directly north of
               the site and while providing a gateway into downtown

       b.      The structure is to be integrated into the site, context and pattern of downtown and Littleton
               Boulevard by differentiating portions of the building's mass; increasing projections and recesses and
               varying window styles and patterns.

       c.      Completion of the west side of Bemis Street with respect to transitioning from the single family
               homes on the east side of the street and creating a signature entrance to the Sterne Park
               neighborhood.

       d.      Integration of the public gathering space described below into the northeast corner of the building.

       e.      Creating an appropriate landscape design for the riparian area; integrating the structure into the site;
               creating a pleasing public trail out of the emergency access easement.


Code Enforcement Policies
Policy 1:That the environmental code adopted by the City, which requires land owners to maintain the landscaping on
rental property, including renter-occupied, single-family dwellings, be strongly enforced to preserve the well-
maintained character of the neighborhood and to protect adjacent property owners from adverse impacts of poor
maintenance.
MEETS POLICY:
        Alliance Residential Company's management team will have maintenance staff on site 7 days a week to ensure
        the property is well maintained. In addition, a professional landscaping company will be hired to provide
        ongoing landscaping upkeep of the property.

                                                                                                             8|Page
Policy 2: That a concerted, intensified effort should be taken to control vandalism.
MEETS POLICY:
        Alliance Residential Company will have property management staff on site during regular business hours. After
        regular business hours, a security guard will monitor the site. As a courtesy patrol, Alliance will also offer a free
        or discounted unit to one or two local police officers who can live on site and assist with security. The property
        will also have access control key fobs, alarm systems, and video monitoring.

Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study
1C1: Massing/Height/Scale Goal: To moderate scale changes between adjacent lots.
1C1.2: Building form next to Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street should be a maximum of three stories, stepping up
in height away from the building.
MEETS GOAL:
         Alliance has redesigned our building based on comments received from the City staff and neighborhood. We are
         proposing three stories along Littleton, stepping back in height 20' on floor 3, 40' on floor 4 and have
         eliminated the fifth story. Along Bemis Street we are also proposing three stories, stepping back in height 25'
         on floor 3, 45' on floor 4, and have eliminated the fifth story.

1C3: Architectural character Goals: The architectural character should complement the existing historic architecture
of this subarea and to create buildings that provide human scale, interest, and variation.
MEETS Goal:
         Due to feedback from staff and the neighborhood, Alliance has adjusted the architectural design so as to better
         complement the existing historic character of the Courthouse and neighborhood. Similar color brick that
         matches the Courthouse will be used on the northeast corner of the north building mass. Also, instead of using
         only flat roofs, pitched and sloped roof elements will be strategically integrated into the building design. Direct
         access to sidewalks and pathways from ground level units will encourage an active lifestyle, foster social
         interactions and enhance safety.

1C4: Materials/Color Goal: To relate new construction to that of existing construction through the use of similar scale
elements and to use materials that conveys a sense of quality, permanence, and care.
MEETS GOAL:
       The primary building masses shall be broken up into smaller secondary masses that create a more residential
       scale with organized rhythm on the facades. Overall, brick, masonry and cast stone masonry materials shall
       constitute 35% of all exterior building materials, not counting openings. The color palette will be warm hued and
       will draw inspiration from surrounding historic context. By building to LEED Gold guidelines quality and
       permanence of the building will be ensured.

2A1 Goal 1: To terminate the view from Alamo Avenue looking east in an attractive way.
2A1 Goal 2: To present an attractive west façade to the light rail station and Downtown.
2A1.2: Building mass is preferred at the intersection of Littleton Boulevard and the railroad line to emphasize a
gateway to the Littleton Boulevard Corridor.
MEETS GOAL:
       Alliance has broken the building into two distinct masses that will present an attractive west façade to the light
       rail station and Downtown. Highly articulated bay or other form breaks long the building mass will serve as a
       culmination of axial view from eastbound Alamo Avenue.

2A2: Vehicular access and parking Goal: To minimize the view of parking from Littleton Boulevard, Alamo Avenue, and
the Downtown light rail stop.
2A2.1: At grade parking lots and/or above grade parking structures should not extend along the entire length or
majority of the site boundary that faces the light rail stop.

2A2.2: Parking lots or above grade parking structures should not extend along the Littleton Boulevard Frontage.
                                                                                                                 9|Page
MEETS GOAL:
      Alliance will have a fully wrapped parking garage that will not be visible from the street. The garage will not
      extend along the west elevation of the site or along Littleton Boulevard.

2A3: Pedestrian circulation and access Goal: To make easy and attractive pedestrian connections to the light rail stop
and Downtown.
MEETS GOAL:
       Alliance will add a trail that runs to the south and west of the site creating pedestrian circulation from Bemis
       Street through the open space and around the site to the sidewalk along Littleton Boulevard and Alamo Avenue.
       Alliance will widen the sidewalk along the Alamo Bridge to improve pedestrian access to the light rail stop and
       Downtown. The addition of a traffic signal will also make it safer and easier to cross Littleton Boulevard at Bemis
       Street.

2C1 Massing and Height Goal: To reflect the scale and height of the adjacent neighborhood and historic Courthouse
and to maintain a two to three story edge to Littleton Boulevard, particularly along the south side to provide more sun
exposure to the street.
2C1.1: Higher building forms should be located at the southwest and west portions of the site stepping down toward
Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street. No building shall exceed the height of the Courthouse, 81 feet.
MEETS GOAL:
         Alliance has broken the building into two distinct masses so the west elevation will no longer be a 500 foot wall
         that may overpower the importance of the Courthouse. The building has been designed with more aggressive
         step backs along Littleton and Bemis, with the majority of the higher building forms located at the southwest
         and west portions of the site. We are proposing three stories along Bemis and Littleton, stepping back in
         height 20'-25' on floor 3, 40'- 45' on floor 4 and have eliminated the fifth story. The lower scale mass along
         Littleton Boulevard will preserve solar access to the street and will not detract from the Courthouse.

2C1.2: The building along Bemis Street should respect the scale and pattern of the houses across the street through
such design strategies as the articulation of building form, column/pier spacing, window pattern, and similar
approaches.
MEETS GOAL:
        By breaking the building into two distinct masses the design is able to better respect the scale and pattern of the
        eight houses/businesses across the street on Bemis.

February 2002 Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study Folded Map: Identifies the Arapahoe County Sheriff's Facility site as
a Development Catalyst Site
       Alliance is proposing the highest and best use for this property. The site was identified as a Development
       Catalyst Site and it was highlighted that the site is the closest redevelopment site to the Littleton Downtown
       Light Rail Station. The design guidelines of the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study recommend residential
       development at a density of 50 units per acre. At 225 units, our project would yield 50 dwellings units per
       acre. By reducing the size and scale of our project, Alliance has designed a project that will complement the
       scale of the historic Courthouse.


COMPLIANCE WITH PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
Intent: The Planned Development District (PD) District is hereby created to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare by allowing more flexible development, based upon a comprehensive, integrated plan. For the
purpose of applying certain regulations and standards, and to insure maximum flexibility, the PD District is divided
into subdistrict designations, listed below, based on the primary land use on all or a portion of the land covered by a
general PD Plan. By creating these subdistricts, the Council recognizes that all standards and regulations do not apply
uniformly to all land uses. These subdistricts may exist singly or in combination on any approved general PD Plan,
provided that the specific standards and regulations applicable to the respective subdistricts are met.
                                                                                                              10 | P a g e
Application and Intent: Further, in the application of this Section it is the intent of Council to:
1. Encourage more creative and effective use of land and public or private services, and to accommodate changes in
land development technology so that the resulting economies benefit the community.
       The proposed project and our associated park fees will encourage the City to enhance the flood plain to the
        south of the site. The flood plain is an area of land that would greatly benefit from a more creative and effective
        use. It is our hope that park-like enhancements will allow local residents to better enjoy the flood plain area.
        Additionally, we are proposing a trail connection through the flood plain to connect residents to the regional
        trail which will run parallel to the train tracks and through the west portion of our site. We want to capitalize on
       the sites great proximity to the Littleton Light Rail Station and encourage pedestrian connectivity to the greatest
       extent possible. Our innovative construction technology will allow us to conceal almost all parking except for a
       small fraction of visitor and prospective resident parking. We will accommodate changes in land development
       technology by building to US Green Building Council (USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
       (LEED) certification at the Gold level. This results in operating efficiencies for energy and resource usage
       including water, electricity and gas ultimately minimizing the burden on City infrastructure. It represents a
       minimum of 15% improved energy efficiency over typical development standards. It also requires subcontractor
       training for waste recycling and material installation among many other details. Final certification is based on
       construction documentation and commissioning of major operating systems by third party consultant.

2. Encourage innovation and efficiency in residential development to meet the growing demands for housing of all
types and designs for persons of any social or economic status.
        Our project will have a mix of one and two bedroom units. Operating efficiencies of the LEED construction
        system will reduce operating expenses allowing luxury apartments at a premium location to be within the price
        range of teachers, administrative staff, as well as doctors, aerospace engineers, defense contractors and retired
        empty nesters. Alliance Residential Company is committed to full compliance with Fair Housing laws which
        prohibit discrimination in housing because of race, color, national origin, religion, gender, familial status and
        disability. Alliance also complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable
        accommodations for persons with disabilities. Reasonable is defined as: modifications to an apartment home or
        common area at the resident's expense if the modification is necessary for the disabled person to enjoy use of
        the apartment home and community. Where it is reasonable, the manager of the apartment community may
        permit modification and changes to be made if the disabled person agrees to restore the property to its original
        condition upon leaving the property. Examples of such modifications would be the installation of handrails or
        special door-opening devices, the installation of special signal devices to assist a hearing impaired person, or the
        reservation of a handicapped parking space for a person who must use a wheelchair for mobility.

3. Encourage innovative development or redevelopment of all land uses to meet the contemporary needs of the
community by providing for a greater variety and mix of uses including those which may coexist on the same parcel or
within the same building as shown on an approved PD Plan.
        The intent of this project is to bring a concentration of new customers to the existing Downtown Littleton
        businesses without adding vehicular traffic. This higher density could encourage more diverse businesses on
        Main Street such as specialty grocers or markets. However, residents are provided with many onsite amenities
        for convenience and recreation including:
             · Resort-style swimming pool and spa with outdoor tables, seating and garden lighting
             · Commercial grade outdoor bbq grills in garden courtyard
             · Indoor/outdoor rooftop observatory lounge providing all residents access to the spectacular mountain
                and night sky views
             · Indoor Wi-Fi/media cafe with 24 hour access to printing, coffee, tea and fresh water providing a social
                environment to residents who work from home
             · Large conference room with multimedia presentation capabilities providing a professional environment
                for residents who work from home

                                                                                                               11 | P a g e
            ·   Large commercial grade fitness center with 24 hour access including free weights, yoga/pilates studio,
                cardio machines and crossfit or TRX training area
            ·   Media lounge with multiple flat screen televisions and game tables available for residents to reserve and
                use for private events. Also open during business hours.
            ·   Bicycle repair space and secured bicycle storage to encourage multiple transit options from the
                community

4. Provide a process which relates the design and development of a site to the particular characteristics of the site.
        The most particular characteristic of the site is its proximity to the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station. The
        station is an outcome of millions of dollars of infrastructure investment that needs to be leveraged for the
        benefit of the community. By locating a dense multifamily project in the immediate vicinity of Mass Transit,
        several objectives are achieved such as, Economic Vitality, Enlarged Tax Base, Sustainable Development, Healthy
        Living, and Sustainable Transportation. A dense multifamily development has proven itself to be the most viable
        and necessary form of development in the vicinity of transit stops in the region. This project continues that
        trend.

5. Require that the nature and intensity of development be supported by adequate utilities, transportation network,
drainage systems and open space to serve the development, and to minimize impacts on adjacent existing and future
development.
       Based on Strategic Land Solution's (SLS) conversations with City Engineering staff, the existing utilities are
       capable of supporting this project. The preliminary design connects the building effluent line to the existing
       sanitary sewer main located in Littleton Boulevard. Water will be served by the main in S. Bemis Street, with a
       new fire hydrant connecting to the existing main in Littleton Boulevard. The existing water infrastructure is
       capable of supplying the expected fire flow requirements. Based on SLS's conversations with Xcel Energy and
       Century Link communications, there is sufficient existing natural gas, electrical, and telecommunications
       facilities near the project to serve the expected development requirements. Residents will have walkable access
       to the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station and RTD bus service. The development will also provide the
       required 1.5 parking spaces per units so residents can park their cars within our fully enclosed parking garage.
       Alliance will also provide a traffic signal at the corner of S. Bemis Street and Littleton Boulevard, if warranted by
       the City. The development will also provide 30% open space and through coordination with the City through the
       use of park impact fees generated by the project, will enhance the flood plain to the south of our site and add a
       trail connection on the west portion of our property.

6. Encourage development that is consistent with the policies and guidelines established in the adopted
Comprehensive Plan for the area and for the City.
       See attached for our Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan.

ADDITIONAL MATERIALS
A) The applicant shall submit a statement of the terms and conditions under which the subject property will be
developed and maintained subsequent to development. Such a statement shall include conditions, performance
standards and such other reasonable restrictions as may be necessary to ensure development and maintenance of the
subject property in full accordance with the approved PD Plan.
        During construction, Alliance will follow the Good Neighborhood Construction Policy:
        The Owners agree to implement a plan of construction management techniques, including the following:
            · Project Manager cell phone 24/7
            · Address parking for workers (on-site if possible)
            · No trucks and back up beeps before 8 a.m.
            · Construction weekdays 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. / weekends 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
            · Dust mitigation methods, including without limitation, water wagons for construction and dust control


                                                                                                               12 | P a g e
    ·   Use a website for the purpose of updating the Sterne Park Neighborhood property owners of important
        dates (such as street closures and water interruption) and generally for project updates. Provide a
        complaint forum via email so that neighborhood concerns are able to be expressed on a timely basis.

The Owners will adhere to the "4 C's"
Communication with Neighbors Can Facilitate Cooperation and Support
The 4-C Solution:
1. Communication: Builders who communicate while attempting to limit the impact that construction invariably
causes will win the tolerance of the neighboring residents. A sign on the site, a flyer, a letter to residents in the
immediate area explaining the project and the anticipated schedule can alleviate much of the residents'
concerns about the short-term problems commonly generated by construction

2. Common Sense: While it is the nature of construction to be messy, noisy and paced to meet the pressure of
deadlines and budgets, neighborhood sites require special consideration. Neighbors and builders must
acknowledge the root of the situation ­ the area is both a neighborhood, where people retreat from the work-a-
day world, and a job site, where time is money and money is the bottom line. Residents' concerns arise when
construction practices continually go beyond the limits of common sense.

3. Courtesy: Builders can work to the limit of the law, which allows construction noise from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
seven days a week. Thoughtful contractors who make the effort to schedule the more disruptive aspects of the
project to take place during weekdays between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. should expect few complaints from the
surrounding residents. Builders who respect neighbors' concerns and take action to remedy or modify a
problem will find that that kind of consideration should gain friendly support during the project.

4. Compromise: Compromise begins when builders and neighbors consider each other's point of view.
Compromise takes place through friendly communication between neighbors, the Owners and the contractors

GUIDELINES FOR BUILDERS
Informing Neighbors: At least two days in advance of construction or demolition, the Owners should:
1. Call or meet with as many neighbors as possible
2. Mail letters or flyers describing project
3. Post a sign at the site with a phone number for questions

During Construction: Considerate site policies and procedures should be specifically outlined for the
contractors' employees as well as any sub-contractors on the job.
1. Limit working hours of high noise operations to the middle of the day at least until the structure is fully
enclosed
2. Limit and control radio noise
3. Consider neighbor's exposure in sitting and screening the project's mechanical equipment
4. Place the dumpster on the lot or on the street in the middle of the site
5. Avoid blowing debris and accumulation of clutter
6. Cover the dumpster with a tarp bound by cord to contain dust and debris and to control unauthorized use of
the dumpster
7. Park construction vehicles off-street if possible. Turn off engines unless operating other equipment
8. Place portable toilets away from the property lines in less visible locations; arrange for regular service
9. Control dust with water and chutes
10. Avoid damage to trees and landscaping

To obtain LEED Gold Certification, the construction quality will be enhanced to achieve premium durability
above applicable building and energy code in the following areas:
1. Exterior Water/Moisture
                                                                                                        13 | P a g e
        2. Interior Water/Moisture
        3. Air Infiltration
        4. Interstitial Condensation
        5. Pests
        6. Heat Loss
        7. Ultraviolet Radiation

        Alliance Residential Company is a fully integrated, national operating company that is focused on acquiring,
        owning, developing, and managing rental multi-family properties throughout the United States. Broadstone at
        Littleton Station will be owned and operated by Alliance and will be held to high performance standards. Some
        of the development features will include FHA/ADA compliant design construction and certification, and LEED
        certification. During construction the property will follow a professional erosion and sediment control plan that
        will be verified through field certification. Alliance will utilize professional landscape design and will establish a
        continued maintenance plan. The design goal for the landscaping, as well as the exterior site lighting, will be to
        ensure a pedestrian scale throughout the project and its perimeter. The experience that Alliance Residential
        Company has in the multifamily residential market is clearly highlighted through their property management
        success. The property management staff will be on site seven days a week during regular business hours. After
        hours the site will be monitored by 24 hour on-call staff. Additionally, the site will have 24 hour parking patrol
        which will be regulated by permits, and in the winter months there will be 24 hour snow removal. Lease
        agreements will set limitations on what residents can keep on their balconies to minimize balcony storage. The
        property will also be designed with a central rooftop satellite dish to help avoid additional balcony clutter.


B) The applicant shall submit a written description of the objectives to be achieved by the particular development
concept being proposed. This statement shall include, but is not limited to, the manner in which the proposed
development meets or exceeds the intent of the planned development district, the proposed architectural and site
design concepts including style; placement of structures to maximize views and take advantage of the site's natural
characteristics; building materials (type, textures and colors); specific concepts by which the proposed development
will make an orderly transition from existing adjacent development including varied setbacks and facade treatment,
additional open space, screening of parking areas and landscaping of all public and private open spaces and
recreational facilities. It is the intent of this requirement that the applicant provide a clear, concise statement for the
reviewing authorities to better understand the proposed development concept and upon which a decision regarding
the proposal may be based.
Design Objectives:
     1. Respect the Historic Courthouse by scaling back the building on the corner of Littleton Blvd and Bemis St.
     2. Create a Gateway to Downtown Littleton by locating a highly articulated building mass on the northwest
        corner, away from the courthouse but closer to Downtown.
     3. Relate to the lower scale buildings along Bemis Street by setting back the first two stories by 20', the third story
        by 25', the fourth story by 45' and eliminating the fifth story. This will also preserve solar access for the
        buildings across the street.
     4. Relate to the lower scale buildings along Bemis Street by breaking up the lower story masses into many smaller
        blocks.
     5. Create an inviting and unimposing entry by limiting the height of the entry structure to one or two stories.
     6. Create a safe vehicular environment by adding a much required traffic signal on Littleton Blvd & Bemis St
        intersection.
     7. Upgrade outdated infrastructure by widening & replacing Bemis St fronting the site.
     8. Create a safe community that fosters social interaction by connecting the ground floor units to public
        walkways.
     9. Integrate the building into existing pedestrian infrastructure by providing a connection through the
        development for a regional trail.


                                                                                                                 14 | P a g e
    10. Respond to the view from Alamo Ave by creating a prominent highly articulated building element that
        culminates the vista from eastbound Alamo Avenue.
    11. Mitigate the length of the West Façade by breaking up the building into two masses and then further breaking
        the façades into smaller sub-masses.
    12. Screen Parking from View by locating all resident parking in a garage that is surrounded on all sides by
        dwellings.
    13. Preserve Open Space in at least 30% percent of the site. This exceeds the PD requirements.
    14. Maximum height shall not exceed 49'. This is more stringent than the existing zoning.
    15. Limit the use to Residential only (except the potential 1,200 SF neighborhood café recommended by Staff).
        This is more stringent than existing zoning which allows umpteen uses, some of which could be considered
        public nuisances.
    16. Use high quality building materials. Overall, brick masonry and cast stone masonry shall constitute at least 35%
        of all exterior building materials, not counting the openings. Cementitious stucco, cementitious panels, and
        metal panels shall constitute the other exterior building materials.
    17. Fit into existing neighborhood by utilizing warm hued color palettes inspired by the surrounding architecture.
    18. Mitigate light reflection pollution by limiting glass reflectivity on the west face of the building.
    19. Take advantage of the views by locating balconies and large openings especially along the south and west
        frontages.
    20. Provide highly amenetized common areas including Courtyard, Pool, Roof Deck, Lounge, & Fitness room for the
        residents.
    21. Provide a native xeric landscape that fits into the neighborhood, uses less water, and creates a year-round
        interest.
    22. Provide a sustainable building that contributes to the environment by pursuing LEED certification.

C) The applicant shall submit a written statement of the tentative time schedule for phased development. The
statement shall include the type of development, density, floor area ratios, etc., for each phase of development, and
shall be accompanied by a map generally designating the phases and the sequence of development.
        Alliance Residential Company plans on developing and financing Broadstone at Littleton Station as one phase.
        Pending rezoning, site plan and building permit approvals, construction of the residential development will
        begin March 2014. The leasing center and clubhouse will open first, approximately 14 months after the start
        of construction, in May 2015. Units will then be leased up at a rate of 20 units per month resulting in a fully
        completed project by March 2016. We are currently planning for a maximum of 225 units ranging in size
        from 695 square feet to 1,250 square feet. These units will include a mix of 51% one bedroom/one bathroom
        and 59% two bedrooms/two bathrooms.




                                                                                                            15 | P a g e
NOISE STUDY
TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS
BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION
  RESIDENTIAL REDEVELOPMENT

      TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS
           FINAL REPORT




                 Prepared for:

        Alliance Residential Company
 2000 S. Colorado Blvd., Tower 1, Suite 10500
           Denver, Colorado 80222




                 Prepared by:

           Felsburg Holt & Ullevig
     6300 South Syracuse Way, Suite 600
         Centennial, Colorado 80111
               303/721-1440


 Principal: Christopher J. Fasching, P.E., PTOE
 Project Engineer: Charles M. Buck, P.E., PTOE




         FHU Reference No. 12-310-01
                August 2013
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                              Page
I.      INTRODUCTION -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1 
II.     EXISTING CONDITIONS --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
        A.    Existing Traffic Volumes and Crash Data --------------------------------------------------- 4 
        B.    Existing Roadway Network --------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
        C.    Intersection Capacity ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
III.    BACKGROUND TRAFFIC CONDITIONS ------------------------------------------------------------ 7 
        A.    Traffic Volume Projections ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 7 
        B.    Capacity Analyses -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7 
IV.     TRIP GENERATION and TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT---------------------------------------------- 10 
        A.    Trip Generation ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 10 
        B.    Assignment of New Site Generated Trips -------------------------------------------------- 10 
V.      FUTURE CONDITIONS WITH DEVELOPMENT -------------------------------------------------- 13 
        A.    Total Traffic Volumes ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 13 
        B.    Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis --------------------------------------------------------------- 13 
        C.    Traffic Operations -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 16 
        D.    Signal Progression ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 17 
VI.     FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ------------------------------------------------------------ 18 


LIST OF APPENDICES

APPENDIX A  COUNT AND CRASH DATA 
APPENDIX B  EXISTING LEVELS OF SERVICE SHEETS 
APPENDIX C  2014 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS 
APPENDIX D  2035 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS 
APPENDIX E  WARRANT 3 CHART ­ PEAK HOUR 
APPENDIX F  2014 BUILDOUT LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS 
APPENDIX G  2035 BUILDOUT LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS 
APPENDIX H  SIGNAL PROGRESSION 
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



LIST OF FIGURES
                                                                                                                Page
Figure 1.     Vicinity Map ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2 
Figure 2.     Conceptual Site Plan ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3 
Figure 3.     Existing Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service --------------------- 6 
Figure 4.     2014 Background Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service -------- 8 
Figure 5.     2035 Background Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service -------- 9 
Figure 6.     Site Generated Traffic Volumes -------------------------------------------------------------- 12 
Figure 7.     2014 Total Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service ---------------- 14 
Figure 8.     2035 Total Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service ---------------- 15 


LIST OF TABLES

Table 1.      Site Trip Generation ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 10 
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



I.      INTRODUCTION
The purpose of this report is to provide information specifically related to the traffic impacts
associated with redevelopment of an existing property located in the southwest corner of
Littleton Boulevard/Bemis Street intersection in Littleton, Colorado. Figure 1 shows the location
of the site relative to the adjacent primary roadway system. A previous traffic study was
completed by Felsburg, Holt & Ullevig for this site in September 2005 entitled Downtown
Littleton Transit Oriented Development. A subsequent development proposal was addressed in
a February 2013 analysis, with further refinements evaluated in a May 2013 traffic study,
entitled Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment, Second Edition, also by
Felsburg Holt & Ullevig. The development concept for Broadstone has since been modified, with
a reduction in the number of residential apartments proposed; currently, 225 dwelling units are
envisioned.

Existing site land uses include two buildings with a combined total of about 33,000 square feet
of professional office space. These buildings would be razed and replaced with two apartment
buildings totaling 225 units. The proposed site plan concept plan is depicted on Figure 2.

Direct access to the project site is currently and will continue to be provided via Bemis Street.
No direct access to the project site is planned along Littleton Boulevard.

The purposes of this study are (1) to evaluate the impact that traffic generated by the proposed
development will have on key intersections in the study area and (2) to determine any needed
mitigation measures or transportation improvements. This study assesses the impacts
associated with two development scenarios, described as follows:

        Year 2014: Completion of the full construction of the redeveloped site.

        Year 2035: Long term planning horizon for the development.




                                                                                             Page 1
                  S. Federal Blvd.




                                                                                                                  l.
                                                                                                                ur t P
                                     Centennial




                                                                                                                  o
                                        Golf




                                                                                                             S. C
                                      Course
                                                                                                                      PROJECT
                                                                                                                      SITE
                                                            W. Main St.
                                                                                        One                           W. Littleton Blvd.
                                                                                        Way
                               .                         One
                            Ave                          Way
                        les




                                                                                                                                           S. Windermere St.
           w
         Bo
      W.



                                                                                              S. Bemis St.
                                                       W. Church Ave.
                                                         Arapahoe
                                                        Community
                                                          College                                                        Sterne
                                                                                                                          Park
                                                                                                                          W. Lake Ave.


                                                  85
                                                                        S. Prince St.




                                                                                                                                                               Figure 1
        FELSBURG                                                                                                                         Vicinity Map
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                         NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
                                                     Figure 2
          FELSBURG                       Conceptual Site Plan
          H O LT &
          ULLE VI G                              NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



II.      EXISTING CONDITIONS
A.       Existing Traffic Volumes and Crash Data

Existing traffic volumes at key locations in the site vicinity are provided on Figure 3. This figure
also shows the existing pedestrian traffic utilizing the crosswalk located just west of Bemis
Street. Currently there are approximately 30 pedestrians crossing Littleton Boulevard during
both the AM and PM peak hours. Traffic data was collected in October 2012 and is provided in
Appendix A.

In addition, three years (2010 to 2012) of crash data for the intersection of Littleton Boulevard
and Bemis Street were also reviewed to determine if a correctable crash pattern exists. An
intersection diagram as well as a crash listing can be found in Appendix A. During the three
year period, there were a total of 10 crashes at this intersection, 8 of which were rear end
crashes that occurred on Littleton Boulevard.

B.       Existing Roadway Network

The existing transportation network in the site vicinity includes the following key roadways:

         Littleton Boulevard: This four-lane minor arterial extends east from Downtown Littleton
         to Broadway. Littleton Boulevard splits into one-way streets through the downtown area
         of Littleton, with the westbound direction being Main Street and the eastbound direction
         being Alamo Avenue. The speed limit is posted 25 miles per hour adjacent to the site.

         Bemis Street: This two-lane local street extends south from Littleton Boulevard to Lake
         Street. This road serves both residential and commercial uses. Daily traffic count data
         indicates that Bemis Street currently carries about 960 vehicles per day (vpd) just south
         of Littleton Boulevard.

         Lake Street: This collector street extends east of Prince Street to Windermere Street.
         The intersection of Lake Street and Bemis Street is all-way stop-sign controlled.

C.       Intersection Capacity

Capacity analyses were conducted at the three study area intersections using analysis methods
documented in the Highway Capacity Manual 2010, December 2010 by the Transportation
Research Board. The analysis software Synchro 8 was utilized in these analyses. These
analyses use the existing traffic volumes and intersection lane geometry to develop a level of
service (LOS), a measure of the ease of traffic flow through an intersection. Level of service A
represents relatively uninterrupted flow with little or no vehicle delay, while LOS F represents
undue delay and excessive congestion.

Using the HCM criteria, the existing traffic volumes, intersection lane assignments and traffic
control measures, capacity analyses of these intersections were conducted. Currently the
intersections at Littleton Boulevard/Bemis Street and Bemis Street/existing site access operate




                                                                                              Page 4
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



as two way stop controlled intersections. As previously mentioned, the intersection at Lake
Avenue is all-way stop-sign controlled.

As can be seen on Figure 3, the majority of the movements at the intersections currently
operate at LOS C or better during both peak hours. The only exception is the northbound Bemis
Street approach to Littleton Boulevard, which currently operates at LOS E during the PM peak
hour. LOS worksheets for the existing conditions are included in Appendix B.




                                                                                          Page 5
   LEGEND

   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                b/b
   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Pedestrian Volumes




                                                                                                                 28(31)
    XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                   678(1059)
       x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized                                                                                 17(33)




                                                                                                                                                          c/e
                      Intersection Level of Service
                                                                                                         945(1029)




                                                                                                   l.
                                                                                              ur t P
                    = Stop Sign                                                                             27(28)




                                                                                                                              4(14)
                                                                                                                             14(29)
                                                                                         o
                                                                                    S. C
                                                       W. Main St.
                                                                One
                                                                Way                                                           W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                     Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                   958




                                                                                                                          20(51)
                                                                                                                          17(9)
                                                         One
                                                         Way                SITE

                                               Light Rail                                                       2(17)
                                                Station                                                          1(5)




                                                                                                                                      3(1)
                                                                                                                                    20(28)
                                                                                    S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                              Sterne                         a/a
                                                                                                               Park




                                                                                                                                                    a/a
                                                                      Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                                   W. Lake Ave.
                                         a/a




                                                                  9(23)
                                                                  2(8)
                                                                  2(7)




                                                                           5(7)
                                                                           61(97)
                                                      a/a                  2(4)

                           a/a                                4(2)
                                                            42(62)
                                                                          4(3)
                                                                          0(2)
                                                                          4(2)




                                                              1(4)
                                               a/a




                                                                                                                                                          Figure 3
                                                                                                                         Existing Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                              Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                                   NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



III.   BACKGROUND TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
A.     Traffic Volume Projections

Background traffic consists of vehicle-trips on the roadway network unrelated to the proposed
residential development. First, traffic from the existing site land uses was removed from the
turning movements since these uses will be replaced by the proposed development. The
existing daily traffic on Bemis Street just south of Littleton Boulevard was reduced based on the
assumption that the AM Peak hour traffic to/from the site is approximately 10 percent of the
daily traffic. This is a reduction of approximately 200 vehicles on Bemis Street just south of
Littleton Boulevard.

Background traffic volumes were then developed using an annual growth rate of 0.5 percent,
based on information from historic traffic counts compiled by the City of Littleton. Given that the
area in the vicinity of the site is nearly built out, a 0.5 percent grow rate is reasonable. The
projected Year 2014 background traffic volumes are depicted on Figure 4 while Year 2035
background traffic volumes are shown on Figure 5.

B.     Capacity Analyses

LOS analyses were completed for each of the future background traffic scenarios, the results of
which can be seen on Figures 4 and 5. LOS worksheets for the background conditions can be
found in Appendices C and D. For the Year 2014 background traffic scenario, all of the stop-
controlled intersections are anticipated to operate at LOS D or better during the AM and PM
peak hours with the existing lane geometry in place. In 2035, most of the stop controlled
approaches are expected to operate at LOS C or better, with the exception of the northbound
Bemis Street approach at Littleton Boulevard. This movement is expected to operate at LOS E
during the PM peak hour.




                                                                                             Page 7
   LEGEND

   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                     b/b
    XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
       x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized
                      Intersection Level of Service                                                                       678(1059)
                                                                                                                          10(28)




                                                                                                                                               c/d
                    = Stop Sign
                                                                                                         945(1029)




                                                                                                   l.
                                                                                              ur t P
                                                                                                            17(24)




                                                                                                                         4(9)
                                                                                                                       12(17)
                                                                                         o
                                                                                    S. C
                                                       W. Main St.
                                                                 One
                                                                 Way                                                   W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                     Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                   760
                                                            One
                                                            Way             SITE

                                               Light Rail
                                                Station                             S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                              Sterne
                                                                                                               Park



                                                                       Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                          W. Lake Ave.
                                         a/a




                                                                  9(23)
                                                                  2(8)
                                                                  2(7)




                                                                           5(7)
                                                                           61(97)
                                                      a/a                  2(4)

                           a/a                                  4(2)
                                                              42(62)
                                                                          4(3)
                                                                          0(2)
                                                                          4(2)




                                                                1(4)
                                               a/a




                                                                                                                                               Figure 4
                                                                                                                 2014 Background Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                              Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                            NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
   LEGEND

   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                      b/b
    XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
       x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized
                      Intersection Level of Service                                                                        760(1190)
                                                                                                                           10(30)




                                                                                                                                                c/e
                    = Stop Sign
                                                                                                         1060(1155)




                                                                                                     l.
                                                                                                ur t P
                                                                                                             20(25)




                                                                                                                         5(10)
                                                                                                                        15(20)
                                                                                           o
                                                                                      S. C
                                                       W. Main St.
                                                                 One
                                                                 Way                                                    W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                     Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                     850
                                                            One
                                                            Way              SITE

                                               Light Rail
                                                Station                               S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                               Sterne
                                                                                                                Park



                                                                       Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                           W. Lake Ave.
                                                                  10(25)
                                         a/a




                                                                  5(10)
                                                                  5(10)




                                                                            5(10)
                                                                            70(110)
                                                      a/a                   5(5)

                           a/a                                  5(5)
                                                              45(70)
                                                                           5(5)
                                                                           5(5)
                                                                           5(5)




                                                                5(5)
                                               a/a




                                                                                                                                                Figure 5
                                                                                                                  2035 Background Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                               Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                             NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



IV.        TRIP GENERATION AND TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT
A.         Trip Generation

The amount of traffic that the project site is expected to generate was estimated using data
documented by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) in their manual entitled Trip
Generation, 9th Edition (2012). Given that the project site is situated immediately adjacent to a
major light rail/transit station, it is anticipated that a portion of the trips oriented to/from the
project site will be transit related, thereby reducing the potential amount of vehicle traffic that the
project site will generate. Transit reduction factors from Table B.3 of the ITE Trip Generation
Handbook, 2nd Edition, were applied to the total vehicle-trip generation for the project site.
Specifically, a 10% trip reduction was applied to the residential trips generated by this site. Of
note, this is the same reduction applied in the September 2005 study.

Table 1 summarizes the total estimated vehicle-trips that will be generated by the proposed
development.

Table 1.           Site Trip Generation

                                                        AM Peak Hour Trips       PM Peak Hour Trips
          Land Use         ITE                 Daily
         Description      Code      Size       Trips    In     Out    Total      In        Out     Total
 Apartment                 220       225 du     1,496    25      90     115           90     50      140

              Transit Related Trip Reduction    (150)    (2)    (9)     (11)      (9)       (5)     (14)
                 TOTAL VEHICLE TRIPS           1,346     23     81     104        81        45      126
 du = dwelling units

As shown in Table 1, it is estimated that the project site will generate a total of approximately
1,346 vehicle-trips per day with a total of 104 vehicle-trips during the AM peak hour and 126
vehicle-trips during the PM peak hour.

B.         Assignment of New Site Generated Trips

The distribution of site generated vehicle trips was based upon existing travel patterns in the
study area. As a condition of the development, turning movements to/from Bemis Street south
of the site will be restricted through signing to minimize impacts to the neighborhood; therefore,
a reduced percentage of trips oriented to/from Bemis Street south of the site has been
assumed. The resultant trip distribution is as follows:

           50 percent oriented to/from the east via Littleton Blvd,
           40 percent oriented to/from the west via Littleton Blvd/Alamo Ave.,
           5 percent oriented to/from the west via Lake Street,
           3 percent oriented to/from the east via Lake Street,
           2 percent oriented to/from the south via Bemis Street




                                                                                                  Page 10
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



The trip distribution and resultant site generated traffic assignment are graphically depicted on
Figure 6. As shown, the proposed apartments are expected to add approximately 1,212
vehicle-trips per day (VPD) to Bemis Street between the site access and Littleton Boulevard.
Daily increases of approximately 540 to 672 VPD are projected along Littleton Boulevard in the
vicinity of the site. An increase of about 134 VPD is estimated along Bemis Street immediately
south of the site, with 40 to 68 VPD on Lake Avenue.




                                                                                          Page 11
  LEGEND

 XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
  XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volume

   XX%
                  = Site Trip Distribution

                                                                                                         540             12(41)
                                                              40%
                                                                                                        9(32)




                                                                                                 l.
                                                                                            ur t P




                                                                                                                    32(18)
                                                                                                                    41(23)
                                                                                       o
                                                                                  S. C
                                               W. Main St.
                                                          One
                                                          Way                                                672          W. Littleton Blvd.


                                            Alamo Ave.                                                                    50%




                                                                                                 1212
                                                  One
                                                  Way                      SITE




                                                                                                                               21(73)
                                         Light Rail
                                          Station


                                                                                                                     73(41)
                                                                                                                       8(4)




                                                                                                                                        2(8)
                                                                                  S. Bemis St.
                                                                                                 134




                                                                                                                Sterne
                                                                                                                 Park



                                                                    Shepperd Ave.




                                                                           68                             40                 W. Lake Ave.


                                           5%                                                                                           3%
                                                                                                        2%
                                                      4(2)
                                                      3(1)
                                                      1(1)




                                                                                  26




                                                                    1(3)

                                                  1(4)
                                                             0(1)




                                                                                                                                                  Figure 6
        FELSBURG                                                                                                         Site Generated Traffic Volumes
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                               NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



V.     FUTURE CONDITIONS WITH DEVELOPMENT
A.     Total Traffic Volumes

Year 2014

Figure 7 depicts the total Year 2014 traffic volumes. These traffic volumes were calculated by
adding together the background traffic volumes shown on Figure 4 and the site generated traffic
volumes shown on Figure 6.

Long-Term Future (Year 2035)

Figure 8 depicts the total traffic volumes in the long term future. These traffic volumes were
calculated by adding together the background traffic volumes shown on Figure 5 and the site
generated traffic volumes shown on Figure 6.

B.     Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis

The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), FHWA, 2009 identifies nine warrants
that provide guidance to determine whether installation of a traffic signal is justified. These
warrants are based on traffic volumes, pedestrian levels, crash experience, and other criteria.

For this study, future traffic conditions at Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street were evaluated
relative to Warrant 3 (Peak Hour Volume), Warrant 4 (Pedestrian Volume) and Warrant 7
(Crash Experience). The MUTCD states that Warrant 3 should only be used for analyzing
intersections that have unusual traffic characteristics such as a large number of vehicles
discharging over a short timeframe (such as shift changes at a factory). That is not the case for
this project; therefore, traffic signal warrant analyses using Warrant 3 are only included in this
analysis as a guide for the potential of signalization in the future, not as a recommendation.
Appendix E contains a graphic illustrating the projected traffic volumes relative to the peak hour
warrant.

Considering these warrants, there is the potential that a traffic signal could be warranted in the
future at the intersection of Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street due to vehicle volume and
delay, but is unlikely due to pedestrian volume or crash experience.

A pedestrian volume of approximately 100 pedestrians per hour is needed to meet Warrant 4.
The current pedestrian volume is only 30 pedestrians per hour, and the site could contribute an
additional 18 to 26 pedestrians per hour (based on mode-split estimates applied to the trip
generation). As many of of the site pedestrian trips would be oriented to/from the nearby light
rail station, the pedestrian crossing volume at the intersection would remain well below the
threshold.

Vehicle safety could be a consideration at this intersection due to the difficult northbound to
westbound left turn movement, but the crash history currently does not show collisions involving
northbound left turning vehicles. As previously mentioned, crash data is included in the
appendix to this report.




                                                                                            Page 13
   LEGEND

   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                 b/b
    XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
       x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized
                      Intersection Level of Service                                                                               678(1059)
                                                                                                                                  22(69)




                                                                                                                                                           e/f
      X/X           = AM/PM Peak Hour Signalized
                                                                                                           945(1029)




                                                                                                    l.
                      Intersection Level of Service




                                                                                               ur t P
                                                                                                              26(56)                              A/A




                                                                                                                            36(27)
                                                                                                                            53(40)
                    = Stop Sign




                                                                                          o
                                                                                     S. C
                    = Traffic Signal

                                                       W. Main St.
                                                                 One                                                                              with signal
                                                                 Way                                                         W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                     Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                    1972




                                                                                                                         20(51)
                                                                                                                         21(73)
                                                            One
                                                            Way              SITE

                                               Light Rail                                                       73(41)
                                                Station                                                           8(4)




                                                                                                                                     2(8)
                                                                                                                                   20(28)
                                                                                     S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                                Sterne                      a/a
                                                                                                                 Park




                                                                                                                                                     a/a
                                                                       Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                                  W. Lake Ave.
                                                                  13(25)
                                         a/a




                                                                  3(9)
                                                                  5(8)




                                                                            6(10)
                                                                            61(97)
                                                      a/a                   2(4)

                           a/a                                  5(6)
                                                              42(62)
                                                                           4(3)
                                                                           0(3)
                                                                           4(3)




                                                                1(4)
                                               a/a




                                                                                                                                                           Figure 7
                                                                                                                         2014 Total Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                                Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                                   NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
    LEGEND

    XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                               b/b
     XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
        x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized
                       Intersection Level of Service                                                                             760(1190)
                                                                                                                                 22(71)




                                                                                                                                                         f/f
       X/X           = AM/PM Peak Hour Signalized
                                                                                                         1060(1155)




                                                                                                     l.
                       Intersection Level of Service




                                                                                                ur t P
                                                                                                             29(57)                              A/A




                                                                                                                           37(28)
                                                                                                                           56(43)
                     = Stop Sign




                                                                                           o
                                                                                      S. C
                     = Traffic Signal

                                                       W. Main St.
                                                                 One                                                                             with signal
                                                                 Way                                                        W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                     Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                     2062




                                                                                                                        30(55)
                                                                                                                        21(73)
                                                            One
                                                            Way              SITE

                                               Light Rail                                                      73(41)
                                                Station                                                          8(4)




                                                                                                                                    2(8)
                                                                                                                                  20(30)
                                                                                      S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                               Sterne                      a/a
                                                                                                                Park




                                                                                                                                                   a/a
                                                                       Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                                 W. Lake Ave.
                                                                  14(12)
                                         a/a




                                                                  6(11)
                                                                  8(11)




                                                                            8(13)
                                                                            70(110)
                                                      a/a                   5(5)

                           a/a                                  6(9)
                                                              45(70)
                                                                           5(5)
                                                                           5(6)
                                                                           5(5)




                                                                5(5)
                                               a/a




                                                                                                                                                         Figure 8
                                                                                                                        2035 Total Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                               Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                                  NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



With respect to traffic volumes, the forecasts suggest that the Littleton Boulevard/Bemis Street
intersection would be a borderline condition relative to satisfying the relevant warrants, when
considered in isolation. However, the potential exists to incorporate the Littleton
Boulevard/Court Place intersection, located 190 feet to the west, into the signalization. There
are several considerations that would contribute to the need for signalizing this offset
intersection system, and they include:

        The level of traffic that Court Place serves (which is unknown at this time)

        The fact that Littleton Boulevard splits into one-way pairs at this location

        The fact that pedestrians cross Littleton Boulevard between Bemis Street and Court
        Place (with a striped cross-walk in place to accommodate this activity)

This combination of factors, coupled with the level of Bemis Street traffic, may provide
justification for signalization. Further, a signal at this intersection would improve operations for
turning movements from Court Place onto Littleton Boulevard. With completion of Broadstone at
Littleton Station, conditions should be periodically monitored and a comprehensive signal
warrant analysis should be conducted.  

C.      Traffic Operations

Year 2014

The projected Year 2014 traffic operations are depicted on Figure 7. As shown, most of the
stop controlled approaches are expected to operate at LOS B or better during both peak hours
with the existing lane geometry and traffic control. The only exception would be the northbound
approach to Littleton Boulevard on Bemis Street which is expected to operate at LOS E or
worse. This condition is due primarily to the relatively heavy through- volumes along Littleton
Boulevard, which limit the number of gaps in traffic for northbound left-turns. The longest queue
on the northbound approach is projected to be approximately three vehicles. If signalized, this
intersection would operate at LOS A during both peak hours.

Level of service worksheets can be found in Appendix F.

Long-Term Future (Year 2035)

The projected Year 2035 traffic control and levels of service are depicted on Figure 8. As
shown, most of the stop controlled operations would remain at LOS B or better during both peak
hours under the existing lane geometry and traffic control. The only exception would be the
northbound approach to Littleton Boulevard on Bemis Street, which is expected to operate at
LOS F during both peak hours. Again, this is primarily due to the heavy traffic volumes on
Littleton Boulevard. The longest queue on the northbound approach is expected to be
approximately 5 vehicles. If signalized, this intersection would operate at LOS A during both
peak hours. Under signalized traffic control, the northbound maximum probable queue would be
approximately three vehicles, and the westbound left-turn queue would be less than two




                                                                                            Page 16
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



vehicles. The existing westbound left-turn turn bay provides about 45 feet of storage, which
would be adequate to accommodate the anticipated queue for this movement.

Level of service worksheets, as well as queue reports for the signalized intersection analyses,
can be found in Appendix G.

D.     Signal Progression

Signal progression is an engineering term that describes the ability to drive through a signalized
corridor without encountering a red signal indication. Roadways with higher levels of
progression have fewer stops and less delay. Progression is a function of signal spacing, signal
timing, and corridor speeds. Generally, roadways with fewer traffic signals have higher levels of
progression than roadways with more frequent signalized intersections. An analysis was
conducted to estimate the potential impacts that a new signal at Bemis Street would have on
progression along Littleton Boulevard using Synchro 8.The progression analysis was based on
a progression speed of 25 MPH progression speed using a signal cycle length of 100 seconds.
Progression was tested both with and without a traffic signal at Bemis Street.

It was determined that, with the current signal locations, progression green-bands would be an
average of approximately 15.5 seconds along Littleton Boulevard. A traffic signal was then
added to the system at Bemis Street; the resultant green-bands remained at an average of 15.5
seconds. Thus, the additional signal would not impact progressive movement along Littleton
Boulevard. Time-space diagrams and signal timing data are included in Appendix H.




                                                                                           Page 17
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



VI.      FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
This report documents the potential traffic impacts associated with the redevelopment of the
existing property located on the southwest corner of the Littleton Boulevard/Bemis Street
intersection. This site accommodates two existing office buildings at a combined total of about
33,000 square feet. These existing uses will be replaced with two residential apartment
buildings containing a total of 225 units. Vehicular access to the site will be provided via Bemis
Street. No direct access to the project site is planned along Littleton Boulevard.

At full buildout, this site is anticipated to add approximately 1,346 trips per day to the
surrounding roadway network, with approximately 104 trips occurring during the AM peak hour
and approximately 126 trips during the PM peak hour. The impacts of this additional traffic were
evaluated under near term (Year 2014) and long term (Year 2035) conditions. In general, the
existing adjacent roadway system is projected to have sufficient capacity to accommodate the
increase in traffic. All study area intersection operations are expected to remain acceptable
during peak times, with the exception of the northbound approach to Littleton Boulevard on
Bemis Street. This intersection would experience congestion and delays for northbound
movements under the current stop sign control. Relative to this, the findings and
recommendations of this analysis are summarized as follows:

         Traffic conditions at the Littleton Boulevard//Bemis Street intersection should be
         periodically monitored, and a traffic signal should be installed, when warranted based on
         MUTCD criteria.

         A traffic signal at this location would help to reduce projected congestion and queues on
         both the Bemis Street and Court Place approaches, assist pedestrians in crossing
         Littleton Boulevard, and help to improve safety for the northbound to westbound left turn
         movement. Projected operations would be at LOS A during peak times.

         A traffic signal at Littleton Boulevard/Bemis Street would not impact the potential for
         progressive movement along Littleton Boulevard.

         The existing westbound left-turn lane on Littleton Boulevard at Bemis Street has
         sufficient storage to accommodate potential queues; modifications to the median are not
         required.

         The proposed residential development would have the potential to generate an
         estimated 18 to 26 pedestrian trips per hour. Many of these trips would be oriented
         to/from the nearby light rail station. Improvements proposed with this development
         include widening of the existing sidewalk on Alamo Avenue (including the sidewalk on
         the Alamo Bridge), and trail system improvements.




                                                                                             Page 18
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX A           COUNT AND CRASH DATA




                                                                                   Appendix A
                                                                            All Traffic Data Services
                                                                            Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                303-668-0220
                                                                                                                         File Name        : #1 BEMIS&LITTLETONAM
                                                                                                                         Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                         Page No          :1
                                                                             Groups Printed- Class 1
                         BEMIS                                       LITTLETON BLVD                  BEMIS                                    LITTLETON BLVD
                       Southbound                                       Westbound                 Northbound                                     Eastbound
Start Time    Rght      Thru  Left Other                          Rght Thru    Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                       Rght Thru    Left Other Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0         0    0      0                             0   117     1      0      2      0     0      4                          3   186     0      0       313
  07:15 AM       0         0    0      0                             0   122     6      0      5      0     0     11                          4   220     0      0       368
  07:30 AM       0         0    0      0                             0   162     4      0      6      0     1      8                          7   237     0      0       425
  07:45 AM       0         0    0      0                             0   170     5      0      4      0     3     10                          6   259     0      0       457
      Total      0         0    0      0                             0   571    16      0     17      0     4     33                         20   902     0      0     1563

  08:00 AM      0                      0              0       0     0    178      6               0               3      0    0      6        7           232                      0   0    432
  08:15 AM      0                      0              0       0     0    168      2               0               1      0    0      4        7           217                      0   0    399
  08:30 AM      0                      0              0       0     0    141      4               1               5      0    0      6        4           169                      0   0    330
  08:45 AM      0                      0              0       0     0    168      0               0               7      0    1     10        3           231                      0   0    420
      Total     0                      0              0       0     0    655     12               1              16      0    1     26       21           849                      0   0   1581

Grand Total     0                      0              0       0     0   1226     28               1              33      0     5     59      41           1751                     0   0   3144
 Apprch %       0                      0              0       0     0   97.7    2.2             0.1              34      0   5.2   60.8     2.3           97.7                     0   0
   Total %      0                      0              0       0     0     39    0.9               0               1      0   0.2    1.9     1.3           55.7                     0   0


                                                                                               BEMIS
                                                                                Out              In              Total
                                                                                          0         0                0


                                                                                  0     0                    0       0
                                                                               Rght Thru              Left       Other
                                     3023


                                                0
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                            1784
                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                0 1226
                      LITTLETON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                              LITTLETON BLVD



                                                                                                North
                                                    41 1751
                                            Other Rght Thru
                             1792
                              In




                                                                                                                                                                    1255
                                                                                                                                                                     In




                                                                                 10/2/2012 07:00 AM
                                                                                 10/2/2012 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                             Left Other
                                                                                                                                               28
                     1231




                                                                                 Class 1
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                           3039
                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                               Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                                      5           0  33    59


                                                                                  69               97              166
                                                                                Out              In              Total
                                                                                               BEMIS
                                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                           File Name           : #1 BEMIS&LITTLETONAM
                                                                                                                           Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                           Start Date          : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                           Page No             :2

                         BEMIS                     LITTLETON BLVD                     BEMIS                                                         LITTLETON BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                    Northbound                                                          Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                                  App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
 07:30 AM      0       0     0     0      0      0 162     4   0   166         6    0    1    8                                        15        7         237               0          0   244       425
 07:45 AM      0       0     0     0      0      0 170     5   0   175         4    0    3   10                                        17        6         259               0          0   265       457
 08:00 AM      0       0     0     0      0      0 178     6   0   184         3    0    0    6                                         9        7         232               0          0   239      432
 08:15 AM      0       0     0     0      0      0 168     2   0   170         1    0    0    4                                         5        7         217               0          0   224      399
 Total Volume  0       0     0     0      0      0 678    17   0   695       14     0    4   28                                        46       27         945               0          0   972     1713
 % App. Total  0       0     0     0             0 97.6 2.4    0            30.4    0  8.7 60.9                                          2.8 97.2    0    0
      PHF .000 .000 .000 .000                                  .000 .000 .952 .708 .000            .944 .583 .000 .333 .700        .676 .964 .912 .000 .000                                 .917     .937

                                                                                                   BEMIS
                                                                                    Out              In            Total
                                                                                              0         0              0


                                                                                      0     0                  0       0
                                                                                   Rght Thru            Left       Other




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                      1654


                                                 0
                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                  Rght Thru
                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                  959
                                                                                                                                                     0
                       LITTLETON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                   LITTLETON BLVD
                                                                                                    North
                                                         945
                                             Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                        678
                                972
                               In




                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM                                                             695
                                                     27




                                                                                                                                                  Left Other




                                                                                  Class 1
                                                                                                                                                    17
                       682
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                1654
                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                   Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                                          4           0  14    28


                                                                                      44               46             90
                                                                                    Out              In            Total
                                                                                                   BEMIS
                                                                            All Traffic Data Services
                                                                            Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                303-668-0220
                                                                                                                    File Name         : #1 BEMIS&LITTLETONPM
                                                                                                                    Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date        : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                    Page No           :1
                                                                             Groups Printed- Class 1
                         BEMIS                                       LITTLETON BLVD                  BEMIS                                LITTLETON BLVD
                       Southbound                                       Westbound                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
Start Time    Rght      Thru  Left Other                          Rght Thru    Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                   Rght Thru    Left Other Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0         0    0      0                             0   248     8      0      3      0     2     14                      4   254     0      0       533
  04:15 PM       0         0    0      0                             0   253     4      0      6      0     6      5                      4   225     0      0       503
  04:30 PM       0         0    0      0                             0   270    11      0      5      0     3      6                      6   234     0      0       535
  04:45 PM       0         0    0      0                             0   267     9      0     10      0     4     10                     17   248     0      0       565
      Total      0         0    0      0                             0 1038     32      0     24      0    15     35                     31   961     0      0     2136

  05:00 PM      0                      0              0       0     0    252      8          0               7      0     2      7        4            285                     0   0    565
  05:15 PM      0                      0              0       0     0    270      5          0               7      0     5      8        1            262                     0   0    558
  05:30 PM      0                      0              0       0     0    265     11          0               8      0     2      7        3            239                     0   0    535
  05:45 PM      0                      0              0       0     0    232      5          0              14      0     3      4        8            239                     0   0    505
      Total     0                      0              0       0     0   1019     29          0              36      0    12     26       16           1025                     0   0   2163

Grand Total     0                      0              0       0     0   2057     61          0            60        0     27     61      47           1986                     0   0   4299
 Apprch %       0                      0              0       0     0   97.1    2.9          0          40.5        0   18.2   41.2     2.3           97.7                     0   0
   Total %      0                      0              0       0     0   47.8    1.4          0           1.4        0    0.6    1.4     1.1           46.2                     0   0


                                                                                          BEMIS
                                                                                Out         In              Total
                                                                                      0        0                0


                                                                                  0     0               0       0
                                                                               Rght Thru         Left       Other
                                     4117


                                                0
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                         Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                        2046
                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                            0 2057
                      LITTLETON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                          LITTLETON BLVD



                                                                                           North
                                                    47 1986
                                            Other Rght Thru
                             2033
                              In




                                                                                                                                                                2118
                                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                                 10/2/2012 04:00 PM
                                                                                 10/2/2012 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                         Left Other
                                                                                                                                           61
                     2084




                                                                                 Class 1
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                       4164
                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                               Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                 27     0  60    61


                                                                                 108         148              256
                                                                                Out         In              Total
                                                                                          BEMIS
                                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                      File Name           : #1 BEMIS&LITTLETONPM
                                                                                                                      Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                      Start Date          : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                      Page No             :2

                         BEMIS                     LITTLETON BLVD                     BEMIS                                                    LITTLETON BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                    Northbound                                                     Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                             App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
 04:30 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0 270    11   0   281         5    0    3    6                                   14        6         234               0          0   240       535
 04:45 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0 267     9   0   276       10     0    4   10                                   24       17         248               0          0   265       565
 05:00 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0 252     8   0   260         7    0    2    7                                   16        4 285                       0          0    289     565
 05:15 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0 270     5   0   275         7    0    5    8                                   20        1 262                       0          0    263     558
 Total Volume  0       0     0     0      0      0 1059   33   0 1092        29     0   14   31                                   74       28 1029                      0          0   1057    2223
 % App. Total  0       0     0     0             0   97    3   0            39.2    0 18.9 41.9                                     2.6 97.4    0    0
      PHF .000 .000 .000 .000                                  .000 .000 .981 .750 .000       .972 .725 .000 .700 .775        .771 .412 .903 .000 .000                                 .914     .984

                                                                                              BEMIS
                                                                                    Out         In            Total
                                                                                          0        0              0


                                                                                      0     0             0       0
                                                                                   Rght Thru       Left       Other




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                      2130


                                                 0
                                     Total




                                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                            1058
                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                0 1059
                       LITTLETON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                              LITTLETON BLVD
                                                                                               North
                                                     28 1029
                                             Other Rght Thru
                              1057
                               In




                                                                                                                                                                    1092
                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                             Left Other




                                                                                  Class 1
                                                                                                                                               33
                      1073
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                           2150
                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                   Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                     14     0  29    31


                                                                                      61          74            135
                                                                                    Out         In            Total
                                                                                              BEMIS
                                                                               All Traffic Data Services
                                                                               Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                   303-668-0220
                                                                                                                                 File Name           : #2 BEAMIS&SITEAM
                                                                                                                                 Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date          : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                                 Page No             :1
                                                                                 Groups Printed- Class 1
                         BEMIS                                            SITE ACCESS                    BEMIS                                      SITE ACCESS
                       Southbound                                          Westbound                  Northbound                                     Eastbound
Start Time    Rght      Thru  Left Other                           Rght     Thru   Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                   Rght       Thru  Left Other Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0         1    0      0                              0        0     0      0      0      2     0      0                      0          0    0      0         3
  07:15 AM       4         4    0      0                              0        0     0      2      0      5     0      0                      0          0    2      0        17
  07:30 AM       4         5    1      0                              0        0     0      0      0      5     2      0                      0          0    0      0        17
  07:45 AM       2         5    0      0                              0        0     0      0      0      7     0      0                      1          0    0      0        15
      Total     10        15    1      0                              0        0     0      2      0     19     2      0                      1          0    2      0        52

  08:00 AM      7                  6                   1       0     0        0          0       0               0        3     1     0        0          0                   0     1    19
  08:15 AM      5                  4                   1       0     0        0          0       0               0        1     0     0        0          0                   0     0    11
  08:30 AM      2                  6                   0       0     0        0          0       0               0        6     3     0        0          0                   0     1    18
  08:45 AM      1                  2                   0       0     0        0          0       0               0        6     0     2        0          0                   0     0    11
      Total    15                 18                   2       0     0        0          0       0               0       16     4     2        0          0                   0     2    59

Grand Total     25            33                 3             0     0        0          0       2               0        35     6     2      1           0                    2     2   111
 Apprch %       41          54.1               4.9             0     0        0          0     100               0      81.4    14   4.7     20           0                   40    40
   Total %    22.5          29.7               2.7             0     0        0          0     1.8               0      31.5   5.4   1.8    0.9           0                  1.8   1.8


                                                                                              BEMIS
                                                                                   Out          In              Total
                                                                                     37           61               98


                                                                                    25    33                3       0
                                                                                  Rght Thru          Left       Other
                                       36


                                                2
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                         3




                                                                                               North
                        SITE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                         SITE ACCESS
                                                           0
                                            Other Rght Thru
                                 5
                              In




                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                    10/2/2012 07:00 AM
                                                     1




                                                                                    10/2/2012 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                            Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                0
                       31




                                                                                    Class 1
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                2




                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                     2




                                                                                  Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                         6      35   0     2


                                                                                     34           43               77
                                                                                   Out          In              Total
                                                                                              BEMIS
                                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                                      File Name                   : #2 BEAMIS&SITEAM
                                                                                                                                      Site Code                   : 00000000
                                                                                                                                      Start Date                  : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                                      Page No                     :2

                         BEMIS                       SITE ACCESS                                                      BEMIS                                  SITE ACCESS
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                                    Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                              App. Total    Rght Thru Left Other          App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other                       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
 07:15 AM      4       4     0     0      8      0    0    0   2                                     2            0           5   0   0          5       0            0             2         0          2          17
 07:30 AM      4       5     1     0     10      0    0    0   0                                     0            0           5   2   0          7       0            0             0         0          0          17
 07:45 AM      2       5     0     0      7      0    0    0   0                                     0            0           7   0   0         7        1            0             0         0          1          15
 08:00 AM      7       6     1     0     14      0    0    0   0                                     0            0        3      1   0         4        0            0             0         1          1          19
 Total Volume 17     20      2     0     39      0    0    0   2                                     2            0       20      3   0        23        1            0             2         1          4          68
           43.6 51.3
 % App. Total         5.1    0                                         0    0    0 100                 0   87   13    0                           25    0   50   25
       PHF .607 .833 .500 .000                                 .696 .000 .000 .000 .250        .250 .000 .714 .375 .000                    .821 .250 .000 .250 .250                                .500          .895

                                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                                    Out            In                 Total
                                                                                      22             39                  61


                                                                                     17    20                     2       0
                                                                                   Rght Thru               Left       Other




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                       24


                                                2
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                         Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                  North
                        SITE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                                          SITE ACCESS
                                                           0
                                            Other Rght Thru
                                 4
                              In




                                                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                     1




                                                                                                                                                         Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                                   2

                                                                                  Class 1
                                                                                                                                                             0
                       20
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                  2




                                                                                   Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                          3      20   0     0


                                                                                      21             23                  44
                                                                                    Out            In                 Total
                                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                                 All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                 Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                                   File Name         : #2 BEAMIS&SITEPM
                                                                                                                                   Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                                   Page No           :1
                                                                                   Groups Printed- Class 1
                         BEMIS                                              SITE ACCESS                    BEMIS                                    SITE ACCESS
                       Southbound                                            Westbound                  Northbound                                   Eastbound
Start Time    Rght      Thru  Left Other                             Rght     Thru   Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                 Rght       Thru  Left Other Int. Total
  07:00 AM       2         9    0      0                                0        0     0      3      0      3     1      0                    0          0    3      0        21
  07:15 AM       0         6    0      2                                0        0     0      0      0      6     0      0                    0          0    5      0        19
  07:30 AM       1        14    0      1                                1        0     0      0      0      3     1      0                    0          0    3      0        24
  07:45 AM       7        19    0      2                                0        0     0      2      0     10     0      0                    0          0    6      0        46
      Total     10        48    0      5                                1        0     0      5      0     22     2      0                    0          0   17      0       110

  08:00 AM      0                 13                   0        2      0        0          0       0               0        5     0    0       1          0                   3    1     25
  08:15 AM      0                  7                   0        4      0        0          0       0               0        8     1    0       2          0                   4    0     26
  08:30 AM      2                 12                   0        2      0        0          0       1               0        5     0    0       2          0                   4    0     28
  08:45 AM      3                  7                   1        1      0        0          0       0               0        9     0    0       2          0                   5    0     28
      Total     5                 39                   1        9      0        0          0       1               0       27     1    0       7          0                  16    1    107

Grand Total     15            87                 1              14      1       0          0       6               0        49     3   0      7           0              33         1   217
 Apprch %     12.8          74.4               0.9              12   14.3       0          0    85.7               0      94.2   5.8   0   17.1           0            80.5       2.4
   Total %     6.9          40.1               0.5             6.5    0.5       0          0     2.8               0      22.6   1.4   0    3.2           0            15.2       0.5


                                                                                                BEMIS
                                                                                     Out          In              Total
                                                                                       83          117              200


                                                                                      15    87                1      14
                                                                                    Rght Thru          Left       Other
                                       59


                                              33
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                               1


                                                                                                                                                         1




                                                                                                 North
                        SITE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                         SITE ACCESS
                                                           0
                                            Other Rght Thru
                                41
                              In




                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                      10/2/2012 07:00 AM
                                                     7




                                                                                      10/2/2012 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                            Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                0
                       18




                                                                                      Class 1
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                         8
                                                                                                                                                     6




                                                                                    Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                           3      49   0     0


                                                                                       94           52              146
                                                                                     Out          In              Total
                                                                                                BEMIS
                                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                                   File Name                   : #2 BEAMIS&SITEPM
                                                                                                                                   Site Code                   : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date                  : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                                   Page No                     :2

                         BEMIS                       SITE ACCESS                                                      BEMIS                               SITE ACCESS
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                                    Northbound                               Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                              App. Total    Rght Thru Left Other       App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other                       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM      7     19      0     2     28      0    0    0   2                                     2            0       10   0   0        10        0            0             6         0          6          46
 08:00 AM      0     13      0     2     15      0    0    0   0                                     0            0        5   0   0         5        1            0           3           1         5          25
 08:15 AM      0       7     0     4     11      0    0    0   0                                     0            0        8   1   0         9        2            0           4           0         6          26
 08:30 AM      2     12      0     2     16      0    0    0   1                                     1            0        5   0   0         5        2            0           4           0         6          28
 Total Volume  9     51      0    10     70      0    0    0   3                                     3            0       28   1   0        29        5            0          17           1        23         125
           12.9 72.9
 % App. Total           0 14.3                                         0    0    0 100                 0 96.6  3.4    0                      21.7    0 73.9  4.3
       PHF .321 .671 .000 .625                                 .625 .000 .000 .000 .375        .375 .000 .700 .250 .000                 .725 .625 .000 .708 .250                                .958          .679

                                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                                    Out            In                 Total
                                                                                      45             70                 115


                                                                                      9    51                     0      10
                                                                                   Rght Thru               Left       Other




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                       33


                                              17
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                      Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                         0


                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                  North
                        SITE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                                       SITE ACCESS
                                                           0
                                            Other Rght Thru
                                23
                              In




                                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                     5




                                                                                                                                                      Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                                3

                                                                                  Class 1
                                                                                                                                                          0
                       10
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                   Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                          1      28   0     0


                                                                                      56             29                  85
                                                                                    Out            In                 Total
                                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                             File Name            : #3 BEMIS&LAKEAM
                                                                                                                             Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                             Start Date           : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                             Page No              :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- Class 1
                        BEMIS                                LAKE AVE                     BEMIS                                                   LAKE AVE
                      Southbound                             Westbound                 Northbound                                                 Eastbound
Start Time                                                                                                                                                                   Int. Total
   07:00 AM     2           0             0       0     0      11          0            5               2        1      0       0       0           7                0   0         28
   07:15 AM     1           0             0       1     0      13          0            0               0        0      2       0       0          16                0   1         34
   07:30 AM     0           1             0       0     2      21          0            1               1        1      1       0       1          10                2   0         41
   07:45 AM     0           0             0       0     1      17          1            0               1        1      1       0       0          14                0   0         36
       Total    3           1             0       1     3      62          1            6               4        3      4       0       1          47                2   1        139

   08:00 AM     3           1             0       2     1      17          1           4                1        0      1       0       0           7                1   0         39
   08:15 AM     3           0             1       0     1      16          0           1                1        0      0       1       1          10                0   0         35
   08:30 AM     1           0             0       0     2      12          1           4                2        0      2       0       0          13                2   1         40
   08:45 AM     2           1             1       0     1      16          0           2                0        0      1       2       0          12                1   1         40
       Total    9           2             2       2     5      61          2          11                4        0      4       3       1          42                4   2        154

 Grand Total   12          3         2             3     8    123          3          17              8           3      8       3     2           89                6   3        293
  Apprch %     60         15       10             15   5.3   81.5          2        11.3           36.4        13.6   36.4    13.6     2           89                6   3
    Total %    4.1         1       0.7             1   2.7     42          1         5.8            2.7           1    2.7       1   0.7          30.4               2   1



                                                                                     BEMIS
                                                                     Out               In              Total
                                                                       17                 20              37


                                                                      12     3                     2       3
                                                                    Rght Thru               Left       Other
                        243


                                    6
                       Total




                                                                                                                                     Rght Thru
                                Left




                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                        8


                                                                                                                                                     99




                                                                                     North
                                             89
                                Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                    LAKE AVE
                     LAKE AVE




                                                                                                                                           123
                         100
                         In




                                                                                                                                                       In




                                                                      10/2/2012 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                       151
                                         2




                                                                      10/2/2012 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                     Left Other
                                                                                                                                         3
                        143




                                                                      Class 1
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                    3




                                                                                                                                                              250
                                                                                                                                             17




                                                                    Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                           8           3    8    3


                                                                               8          22              30
                                                                     Out               In              Total
                                                                                     BEMIS
                                                           All Traffic Data Services
                                                           Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                 303-668-0220
                                                                                                                            File Name                    : #3 BEMIS&LAKEAM
                                                                                                                            Site Code                    : 00000000
                                                                                                                            Start Date                   : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                            Page No                      :2

                          BEMIS                         LAKE AVE                                     BEMIS                                        LAKE AVE
                       Southbound                       Westbound                                  Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other              App. Total    Rght Thru Left Other             App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other                   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      3       1     0     2        6     1  17     1    4                23             1           0    1    0          2        0    7              1            0         8          39
  08:15 AM      3       0     1     0        4     1  16     0    1                18             1           0    0    1          2        1  10               0            0        11          35
  08:30 AM      1       0     0     0        1     2  12     1    4                19             2           0    2    0          4        0  13               2            1        16          40
  08:45 AM      2       1     1     0        4     1  16     0    2                19             0           0    1    2          3        0  12               1            1        14          40
 Total Volume   9       2     2     2       15     5  61     2  11                 79             4           0    4    3         11        1  42               4            2        49         154
 % App. Total  60 13.3 13.3 13.3                 6.3 77.2 2.5 13.9                          36.4              0 36.4 27.3                   2 85.7            8.2          4.1
        PHF .750 .500 .500 .250          .625 .625 .897 .500 .688              .859 .500 .000 .500 .375                       .688 .250 .808 .500 .500                            .766          .963

                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                 Out               In                 Total
                                                                          9           15                 24


                                                                   9    2                         2       2
                                                               Rght Thru                   Left       Other




                                                             Peak Hour Data
                          123


                                      4
                         Total




                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                  Left




                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                               5


                                                                                                                                                           48
                                                                                  North
                                               42
                                  Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                          LAKE AVE
                       LAKE AVE

                             49




                                                                                                                                                   61
                           In




                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                               79
                                           1




                                                                                                                                            Left Other




                                                              Class 1
                                                                                                                                                2
                          74
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                      2




                                                                                                                                                                    127
                                                                                                                                                    11




                                                               Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                      4           0    4    3


                                                                          5           11                 16
                                                                 Out               In                 Total
                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                  All Traffic Data Services
                                                                  Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                       303-668-0220
                                                                                                                    File Name             : #3 BEMIS&LAKEPM
                                                                                                                    Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date            : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                    Page No               :1
                                                                    Groups Printed- Class 1
                        BEMIS                                  LAKE AVE                     BEMIS                                         LAKE AVE
                      Southbound                               Westbound                 Northbound                                       Eastbound
Start Time    Rght     Thru  Left Other                 Rght   Thru   Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                 Rght          Thru   Left Other Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0        0    0      0                    3     24     1      2      2      2     0      0                    0            23     1      2        60
  04:15 PM       2        2    0      0                    3     15     1      1      0      2     0      2                    1            12     1      4        46
  04:30 PM       0        4    2      1                    0     13     2      4      2      0     1      0                    0            16     2      2        49
  04:45 PM       8        1    1      0                    3     22     1      2      1      1     0      0                    1            13     0      3        57
      Total     10        7    3      1                    9     74     5      9      5      5     1      2                    2            64     4     11       212

  05:00 PM      5          1              4        2      2      28          1       6        0         0      0       0        0           15                0      0     64
  05:15 PM      5          2              2        0      1      19          0       1        0         0      2       2        1           18                1      1     55
  05:30 PM      5          4              0        1      1      28          2       6        1         1      1       0        2           16                1      0     69
  05:45 PM      3          4              1        0      1      17          0       3        0         1      2       3        0           11                1      6     53
      Total    18         11              7        3      5      92          3      16        1         2      5       5        3           60                3      7    241

Grand Total     28        18      10                4     14    166      8          25        6          7      6       7      5           124                 7     18   453
 Apprch %     46.7        30    16.7              6.7    6.6   77.9    3.8        11.7     23.1       26.9   23.1    26.9    3.2          80.5               4.5   11.7
   Total %     6.2         4     2.2              0.9    3.1   36.6    1.8         5.5      1.3        1.5    1.3     1.5    1.1          27.4               1.5      4


                                                                                  BEMIS
                                                                       Out          In       Total
                                                                         28           60        88


                                                                        28    18           10     4
                                                                      Rght Thru          Left Other
                        354


                                    7
                       Total




                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                Left




                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                               14


                                                                                                                                             140




                                                                                   North
                                            124
                                Other Rght Thru
                     LAKE AVE




                                                                                                                                            LAKE AVE
                                                                                                                                   166
                          154
                         In




                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                        10/2/2012 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                213
                                         5




                                                                        10/2/2012 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                             Left Other
                                                                                                                                 8
                        200




                                                                        Class 1
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                   18




                                                                                                                                                      353
                                                                                                                                     25




                                                                      Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                             6       7   6     7


                                                                         31           26        57
                                                                       Out          In       Total
                                                                                  BEMIS
                                                                   All Traffic Data Services
                                                                   Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                        303-668-0220
                                                                                                                             File Name                    : #3 BEMIS&LAKEPM
                                                                                                                             Site Code                    : 00000000
                                                                                                                             Start Date                   : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                             Page No                      :2

                         BEMIS                        LAKE AVE                                           BEMIS                                     LAKE AVE
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                 App. Total    Rght Thru Left Other           App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other                     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
 04:45 PM      8       1     1     0     10      3   22    1   2                      28             1           1   0   0           2       1            13           0        3        17           57
 05:00 PM      5       1     4     2     12      2   28    1   6                      37             0           0   0   0           0       0            15           0        0        15           64
 05:15 PM      5       2     2     0      9      1   19    0   1                    21               0           0   2   2           4       1            18           1        1        21           55
 05:30 PM      5       4     0     1     10      1   28    2   6                    37               1           1   1   0           3       2            16           1        0        19           69
 Total Volume 23       8     7     3     41      7   97    4  15                   123               2           2   3   2           9       4            62           2        4        72         245
           56.1 19.5 17.1
 % App. Total              7.3                          5.7 78.9  3.3 12.2             22.2 22.2 33.3 22.2                           5.6 86.1  2.8  5.6
       PHF .719 .500 .438 .375                    .854 .583 .866 .500 .625        .831 .500 .500 .375 .250                     .563 .500 .861 .500 .333                              .857          .888

                                                                                    BEMIS
                                                                       Out            In                 Total
                                                                         11             41                  52


                                                                        23     8                     7       3
                                                                      Rght Thru               Left       Other




                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                        195


                                    2
                       Total




                                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                Left




                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                7


                                                                                                                                                                 71
                                                                                     North
                                             62
                                Other Rght Thru
                     LAKE AVE




                                                                                                                                                               LAKE AVE
                           72




                                                                                                                                                    97
                         In




                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM                                                                  123
                                         4




                                                                                                                                             Left Other




                                                                     Class 1
                                                                                                                                                 4
                        123
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                    4




                                                                                                                                                                         194
                                                                                                                                                     15




                                                                      Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                             3       2   2     2


                                                                         16              9                  25
                                                                       Out            In                 Total
                                                                                    BEMIS
                                          All Traffic Data Services, Inc                        Page 1
                                                9660 W 44th Ave
                                            Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                              www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                          Site Code: 4
                                                                                          Station ID: 4
                                                                           BEMIS S/O LITTLETON BLVD



Start       02-Oct-12                                                                            Total
Time           Tue        NB       SB
12:00 AM                    0        0                                                                    0
    12:15                   0        2                                                                    2
    12:30                   0        0                                                                    0
    12:45                   0        0                                                                    0
    01:00                   2        1                                                                    3
    01:15                   0        0                                                                    0
    01:30                   0        0                                                                    0
    01:45                   0        0                                                                    0
    02:00                   0        0                                                                    0
    02:15                   0        0                                                                    0
    02:30                   0        0                                                                    0
    02:45                   0        1                                                                    1
    03:00                   0        0                                                                    0
    03:15                   0        0                                                                    0
    03:30                   0        0                                                                    0
    03:45                   0        0                                                                    0
    04:00                   1        0                                                                    1
    04:15                   0        0                                                                    0
    04:30                   0        0                                                                    0
    04:45                   1        0                                                                    1
    05:00                   0        0                                                                    0
    05:15                   1        0                                                                    1
    05:30                   3        1                                                                    4
    05:45                   1        1                                                                    2
    06:00                   0        0                                                                    0
    06:15                   1        1                                                                    2
    06:30                   6        0                                                                    6
    06:45                   4        2                                                                    6
    07:00                   4        6                                                                   10
    07:15                   5        9                                                                   14
    07:30                   4        6                                                                   10
    07:45                   5       15                                                                   20
    08:00                   7        7                                                                   14
    08:15                   4       13                                                                   17
    08:30                   2       13                                                                   15
    08:45                   4         9                                                               13
    09:00                   5         5                                                               10
    09:15                   5         7                                                               12
    09:30                   5         6                                                               11
    09:45                   8        11                                                               19
    10:00                   8         6                                                               14
    10:15                   5         4                                                                9
    10:30                   4         7                                                               11
    10:45                   7         5                                                               12
    11:00                   5         4                                                                9
    11:15                   7         7                                                               14
    11:30                   7         8                                                               15
    11:45                  12         8                                                               20
    Total                  133      165                                                              298
  Percent               44.6%    55.4%
    Peak                 11:00    07:45                                                            07:45
     Vol.                   31       48                                                               66
   P.H.F.                0.646    0.800                                                            0.825
                                                  All Traffic Data Services, Inc                        Page 2
                                                        9660 W 44th Ave
                                                    Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                      www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                  Site Code: 4
                                                                                                  Station ID: 4
                                                                                   BEMIS S/O LITTLETON BLVD



Start          02-Oct-12                                                                                 Total
Time              Tue        NB          SB
12:00 PM                       7              9                                                                  16
    12:15                      6              6                                                                  12
    12:30                      9              4                                                                  13
    12:45                     11             13                                                                  24
    01:00                      7             18                                                                  25
    01:15                     16             10                                                                  26
    01:30                      7             14                                                                  21
    01:45                      4              5                                                                   9
    02:00                      4              8                                                                  12
    02:15                      4              7                                                                  11
    02:30                     10              6                                                                  16
    02:45                      8             12                                                                  20
    03:00                      5              1                                                                   6
    03:15                     18              5                                                                  23
    03:30                      6              5                                                                  11
    03:45                      7              5                                                                  12
    04:00                      6             12                                                                  18
    04:15                      6             15                                                                  21
    04:30                     13              5                                                                  18
    04:45                      6             14                                                                  20
    05:00                     11             20                                                                  31
    05:15                     12             22                                                                  34
    05:30                     13              6                                                                  19
    05:45                     10          14                                                                     24
    06:00                     12          12                                                                  24
    06:15                     19          12                                                                  31
    06:30                       5          9                                                                  14
    06:45                       6          7                                                                  13
    07:00                      19         14                                                                  33
    07:15                      10         12                                                                  22
    07:30                       8          3                                                                  11
    07:45                       2          3                                                                   5
    08:00                       7          3                                                                  10
    08:15                       2          7                                                                   9
    08:30                       6          3                                                                   9
    08:45                       3          1                                                                   4
    09:00                       1          6                                                                   7
    09:15                       1          1                                                                   2
    09:30                       2          2                                                                   4
    09:45                       0          1                                                                   1
    10:00                       3          1                                                                   4
    10:15                       1          0                                                                   1
    10:30                       1          3                                                                   4
    10:45                       4          4                                                                   8
    11:00                       0          1                                                                   1
    11:15                       0          1                                                                   1
    11:30                       0          0                                                                   0
    11:45                       0          0                                                                   0
    Total                     318        342                                                                 660
  Percent                  48.2%      51.8%
    Peak                    17:30      16:45                                                               17:00
      Vol.                     54         62                                                                 108
   P.H.F.                   0.711      0.705                                                               0.794
       Total                       451        507                                                              958
     Percent                     47.1%      52.9%

        ADT                        ADT 958                    AADT 958
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX B           EXISTING LEVELS OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                                   Appendix B
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                 Existing AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                       10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   0.3

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL      WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                            945       27     17      678               4     14
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0        0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free     Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None     None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                        0      0
Median Width                              12                       12             12
Grade (%)                                0%                       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                        0.92    0.92   0.92      0.92           0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                          2       2      2         2              2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1027      29     18      737               4     15
Number of Lanes                            2       0      1         2              1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                  Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1056          0         1447    529
         Stage 1                            -      -       -         -         1042       -
         Stage 2                            -      -       -         -          405       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -    2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    655          -          122    494
         Stage 1                            -      -       -         -          301       -
         Stage 2                            -      -       -         -          642       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -       0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    655          -          119    494
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -       -         -          119       -
         Stage 1                            -      -       -         -          301       -
         Stage 2                            -      -       -         -          624       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                      NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.3                    18.3
HCM LOS                                    A              A                      C

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR       WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           291
HCM Control Delay (s)                   18.3       -       - 10.656        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.067       -       - 0.028         -
HCM Lane LOS                               C       -       -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        0.215       -       - 0.087         -




                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                        RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                    Existing AM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                             10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):     0.8

Movement                         EBL            EBR      NBL      NBT             SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                        2              1       3       20              20       17
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)             0              0       0        0               0        0
Sign Control                    Stop            Stop    Free     Free            Free     Free
Right Turn Channelized          None            None    None     None            None     None
Storage Length                      0              0       0                                 0
Median Width                       12                                0               0
Grade (%)                         0%                               0%              0%
Peak Hour Factor                 0.92            0.92    0.92     0.92            0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                   2               2       2        2               2       2
Movement Flow Rate                  2               1       3       22              22      18
Number of Lanes                     1               0       0        1               1       0

Major/Minor                                                     Major 1         Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All        59              31      40         0               0      0
         Stage 1                   31               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                   28               -       -         -               -      -
Follow-up Headway               3.518           3.318   2.218         -               -      -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver           948           1043    1570          -               -      -
         Stage 1                  992               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  995               -       -         -               -      -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)             0               0       0         -               -      -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver           946           1043    1570          -               -      -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver           946               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 1                  992               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  993               -       -         -               -      -

Approach                          EB                      NB                        SB
HCM Control Delay (s)             8.7                      1                         0
HCM LOS                             A                      A                         A

Lane                                     NBL    NBT EBLn1         SBT     SBR
Capacity (vph)                                         976
HCM Control Delay (s)                   7.298     -    8.7            -     -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                       0.002     - 0.003             -     -
HCM Lane LOS                                A     -      A            -     -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)         0.006     -   0.01            -     -




                                                                                                 Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                           RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                         Existing AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.3
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                      4      42      1      2     61      5      4      0      4      2         2       9
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate                4      46      1      2     66      5      4      0      4      2         2      10
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.3                    7.3                 7.1                  6.9
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         50%    9%    3%   15%
Volume Thru (%)                          0%   89%   90%   15%
Volume Right (%)                        50%    2%    7%   69%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                     8    47    68    13
Left Turning Volume                        0    42    61      2
Through Volume                             4     1      5     9
Right Turning Volume                       4     4      2     2
Lane Flow Rate                             9    51    74    14
Geometry Group                             1     1      1     1
Degree of Utilization, X                0.01 0.057 0.082 0.015
Departure Headway, Hd                  3.961 4.035 3.975 3.771
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 897   888   902   941
Service Time                           2.016 2.056 1.993 1.827
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                      0.01 0.057 0.082 0.015
HCM Control Delay                        7.1   7.3    7.3   6.9
HCM Lane LOS                               A     A      A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                  0   0.2   0.3      0




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                 Existing PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                       10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   0.9

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL      WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                           1029       28     33     1059              14     29
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0        0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free     Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None     None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                        0      0
Median Width                              12                       12             12
Grade (%)                                0%                       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                        0.92    0.92   0.92      0.92           0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                          2       2      2         2              2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1118      30     36      1151             15     32
Number of Lanes                            2       0      1         2              1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                  Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1148          0         1781    574
         Stage 1                            -      -       -         -         1133       -
         Stage 2                            -      -       -         -          648       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -    2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    604          -            73   462
         Stage 1                            -      -       -         -          269       -
         Stage 2                            -      -       -         -          483       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -       0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    604          -            69   462
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -       -         -            69      -
         Stage 1                            -      -       -         -          269       -
         Stage 2                            -      -       -         -          454       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                       NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.3                      36
HCM LOS                                    A              A                       E

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR       WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           162
HCM Control Delay (s)                     36       -       - 11.336        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.289       -       - 0.059         -
HCM Lane LOS                               E       -       -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        1.128       -       - 0.189         -




                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                        RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                    Existing PM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                             10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):     1.9

Movement                         EBL            EBR      NBL      NBT             SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                       17              5       1       28              51        9
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)             0              0       0        0               0        0
Sign Control                    Stop            Stop    Free     Free            Free     Free
Right Turn Channelized          None            None    None     None            None     None
Storage Length                      0              0       0                                 0
Median Width                       12                                0               0
Grade (%)                         0%                               0%              0%
Peak Hour Factor                 0.92            0.92    0.92     0.92            0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                   2               2       2        2               2       2
Movement Flow Rate                 18               5       1       30              55      10
Number of Lanes                     1               0       0        1               1       0

Major/Minor                                                     Major 1         Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All        92              60      65         0               0      0
         Stage 1                   60               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                   32               -       -         -               -      -
Follow-up Headway               3.518           3.318   2.218         -               -      -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver           908           1005    1537          -               -      -
         Stage 1                  963               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  991               -       -         -               -      -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)             0               0       0         -               -      -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver           907           1005    1537          -               -      -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver           907               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 1                  963               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  990               -       -         -               -      -

Approach                          EB                      NB                        SB
HCM Control Delay (s)              9                      0.3                        0
HCM LOS                            A                        A                        A

Lane                                     NBL    NBT EBLn1         SBT     SBR
Capacity (vph)                                        928
HCM Control Delay (s)                   7.344     -     9             -     -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                       0.001     - 0.026             -     -
HCM Lane LOS                                A     -     A             -     -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)         0.002     - 0.079             -     -




                                                                                                 Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                           RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                         Existing PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.5
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                      2      62      4      4     97      7      3      2      2      7         8      23
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate                2      67      4      4    105      8      3      2      2      8         9      25
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.5                    7.7                 7.3                  7.2
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         43%    3%    4%   18%
Volume Thru (%)                         29%   91%   90%   21%
Volume Right (%)                        29%    6%    6%   61%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                     7    68   108    38
Left Turning Volume                        2    62    97      8
Through Volume                             2     4      7   23
Right Turning Volume                       3     2      4     7
Lane Flow Rate                             8    74   117    41
Geometry Group                             1     1      1     1
Degree of Utilization, X               0.009 0.084 0.132 0.045
Departure Headway, Hd                   4.21 4.079 4.045 3.942
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 836   874   884   894
Service Time                           2.306 2.123  2.08 2.031
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                      0.01 0.085 0.132 0.046
HCM Control Delay                        7.3   7.5    7.7   7.2
HCM Lane LOS                               A     A      A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                  0   0.3   0.5   0.1




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX C           2014 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                                   Appendix C
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                  2014 Background AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      0.3

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                             945       17       10     678                 4          12
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1027       18       11     737                 4          13

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1046        0             1426        523
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1036           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               390          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     661        -               126       499
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               303          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               653          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     661        -              124         499
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -              124           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              303           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              642           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.2                       18.5
HCM LOS                                                                              C

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        284       -        -    661        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.061       -        - 0.016         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  18.5       -        - 10.537        -
HCM Lane LOS                              C                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.195        -       -   0.05          -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                        2014 Background AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.3
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       4       42       1        2       61       5         4          0      4      2         2         9
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        4       46       1        2       66       5         4          0      4      2         2        10
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.3                       7.3                       7.1                      6.9
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            50%    9%    3%   15%
Vol Thru, %                             0%   89%   90%   15%
Vol Right, %                           50%    2%    7%   69%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                       8    47    68    13
LT Vol                                    0    42    61     2
Through Vol                               4     1     5     9
RT Vol                                    4     4     2     2
Lane Flow Rate                            9    51    74    14
Geometry Grp                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Util (X)                     0.01 0.057 0.082 0.015
Departure Headway (Hd)                3.961 4.035 3.975 3.771
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     897   888   902   941
Service Time                          2.016 2.056 1.993 1.827
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.01 0.057 0.082 0.015
HCM Control Delay                       7.1   7.3   7.3   6.9
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A     A     A
HCM 95th-tile Q                           0   0.2   0.3     0
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                  2014 Background PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      0.5

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                            1029       24       28    1059                 9          17
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1118       26       30    1151                10          18

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1145        0             1768        572
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1132           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               636          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     606        -                75       463
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               270          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               489          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     606        -               71         463
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -               71           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              270           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              465           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.3                       32.5
HCM LOS                                                                              D

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        159       -        -    606        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.178       -        -   0.05        -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  32.5       -        - 11.254        -
HCM Lane LOS                              D                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.625        -       - 0.158           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                        2014 Background PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.5
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       2       62       4        4       97       7         3          2      2      7         8        23
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        2       67       4        4      105       8         3          2      2      8         9        25
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.5                       7.7                       7.3                      7.2
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            43%    3%    4%   18%
Vol Thru, %                            29%   91%   90%   21%
Vol Right, %                           29%    6%    6%   61%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                       7    68   108    38
LT Vol                                    2    62    97     8
Through Vol                               2     4      7   23
RT Vol                                    3     2      4    7
Lane Flow Rate                            8    74   117    41
Geometry Grp                              1     1      1    1
Degree of Util (X)                    0.009 0.084 0.132 0.045
Departure Headway (Hd)                 4.21 4.079 4.045 3.942
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     836   874   884   894
Service Time                          2.306 2.123  2.08 2.031
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.01 0.085 0.132 0.046
HCM Control Delay                       7.3   7.5    7.7  7.2
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A      A    A
HCM 95th-tile Q                           0   0.3    0.5  0.1
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX D           2035 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                                   Appendix D
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                  2035 Background AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      0.3

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                            1060       20       10     760                 5          15
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1152       22       11     826                 5          16

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1174        0             1598        587
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1163           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               435          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     591        -                97       453
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               260          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               620          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     591        -               95         453
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -               95           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              260           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              608           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.1                        22
HCM LOS                                                                              C

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        233       -        -    591        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.093       -        - 0.018         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                    22       -        - 11.205        -
HCM Lane LOS                              C                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.305        -       - 0.056           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                        2035 Background AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.4
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       5       45       5        5       70       5         5          5      5      5         5        10
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        5       49       5        5       76       5         5          5      5      5         5        11
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.4                       7.5                       7.2                      7.1
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            33%    9%    6%   25%
Vol Thru, %                            33%   82%   88%   25%
Vol Right, %                           33%    9%    6%   50%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                      15    55    80    20
LT Vol                                    5    45    70     5
Through Vol                               5     5     5    10
RT Vol                                    5     5     5     5
Lane Flow Rate                           16    60    87    22
Geometry Grp                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Util (X)                    0.018 0.067 0.097 0.024
Departure Headway (Hd)                4.069 4.027 4.018 3.948
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     870   887   890   897
Service Time                          2.139 2.062 2.048 2.017
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.018 0.068 0.098 0.025
HCM Control Delay                       7.2   7.4   7.5   7.1
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A     A     A
HCM 95th-tile Q                         0.1   0.2   0.3   0.1
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                  2035 Background PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      0.7

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                            1155       25       30    1190                10          20
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1255       27       33    1293                11          22

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1283        0             1981        641
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1269           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               712          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     537        -                54       417
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               228          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               447          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     537        -               51         417
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -               51           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              228           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              420           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.3                       44.5
HCM LOS                                                                               E

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        123       -        -    537        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.265       -        - 0.061         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  44.5       -        - 12.137        -
HCM Lane LOS                              E                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.995        -       - 0.193           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                        2035 Background PM
7: Bemis St & Lake Ave                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.7
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       5       70       5        5      110      10         5          5      5     10        10        25
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        5       76       5        5      120      11         5          5      5     11        11        27
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.7                       7.9                       7.4                      7.4
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            33%    6%    4%   22%
Vol Thru, %                            33%   88%   88%   22%
Vol Right, %                           33%    6%    8%   56%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                      15    80   125    45
LT Vol                                    5    70   110    10
Through Vol                               5     5    10    25
RT Vol                                    5     5      5   10
Lane Flow Rate                           16    87   136    49
Geometry Grp                              1     1      1    1
Degree of Util (X)                     0.02   0.1 0.154 0.056
Departure Headway (Hd)                 4.34 4.124 4.071 4.149
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     830   860   874   868
Service Time                          2.341 2.191 2.129  2.15
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.019 0.101 0.156 0.056
HCM Control Delay                       7.4   7.7    7.9  7.4
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A      A    A
HCM 95th-tile Q                         0.1   0.3    0.5  0.2
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX E           WARRANT 3 CHART ­ PEAK HOUR




                                                                                   Appendix E
HIGH VOLUME APPROACH - BEMIS STREET


                                      600
                                                                       2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES
       VEHICLES PER HOUR (VPH)



                                      500



                                                                                    2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE
            MINOR STREET

                                      400




                                                                                               1 LANE & 1 LANE
                                      300
                                      200




                                                                                                                                                                                                150 
                                                                                                                                                                                                100 
                                      100




                                       400   500   600   700   800     900   1000   1100   1200       1300   1400   1500    1600     1700   1800   1900   2000    2100   2200   2300   2400   2500


                                                               MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES - LITTLETON BOULEVARD
                                                                                   VEHICLES PER HOUR (VPH)

                                                                      Note:150 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street
                                                                      approach with two or more lanes and 100 vph applies as the lower
                                                                      threshold volume for a minor street approach with one lane.



                                                                 LEGEND                                                Warrant Volumes
                                                                                                                                     Major          Minor
                                                                       = AM Peak Hour
                                                                       = PM Peak Hour
                                                                                           }   2014                     2014 AM
                                                                                                                           2014 PM
                                                                                                                                     1671
                                                                                                                                            2213
                                                                                                                                                     89
                                                                                                                                                     67
                                                                       = AM Peak Hour
                                                                       = PM Peak Hour
                                                                                           }   2035                        2035 AM
                                                                                                                           2035 PM
                                                                                                                                            1871
                                                                                                                                            2473
                                                                                                                                                     93
                                                                                                                                                     71

                                                                                                                                                                                          Warrant 3
                                                                                                                                                                                         Peak Hour
                                                                                                                                                                 Littleton Boulevard/Bemis Street
                            FELSBURG                                                                                                                                         Total Traffic Volumes
                            H O LT &
                            ULLE VI G
    Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX F           2014 BUILDOUT LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                                   Appendix F
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                        2014 Total AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      1.9

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                             945       26       22     678                36          53
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1027       28       24     737                39          58

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1055        0             1457        528
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1041           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               416          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     656        -               120       495
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               301          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               634          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     656        -              116         495
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -              116           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              301           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              611           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.3                       35.2
HCM LOS                                                                               E

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        213       -        -    656        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.454       -        - 0.036         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  35.2       -        - 10.695        -
HCM Lane LOS                              E                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 2.172        -       - 0.113           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                               2014 Total AM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                                            8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      5.2

Movement                      EBL              EBR      NBL      NBT                          SBT    SBR
Vol, veh/h                      73                8        2      20                            20     21
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0                0        0       0                             0      0
Sign Control                  Stop             Stop     Free    Free                          Free   Free
RT Channelized                   -             None        -    None                             -   None
Storage Length                   0                -        -       -                             -      -
Veh in Median Storage, #         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Grade, %                         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Peak Hour Factor                92               92       92      92                            92     92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2                2        2       2                             2      2
Mvmt Flow                       79                9        2      22                            22     23

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Major1                            Major2
Conflicting Flow All            59                33       45       0                         -         0
         Stage 1                33                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2                26                 -        -       -                         -         -
Follow-up Headway            3.518             3.318    2.218       -                         -         -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        948             1041     1563        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               989                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2               997                 -        -       -                         -         -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                             -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        947             1041     1563        -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        947                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               989                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 2               996                -        -        -                         -         -

Approach                       EB                         NB                                   SB
HCM Control Delay, s           9.1                        0.7                                   0
HCM LOS                          A

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT EBLn1        SBT      SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1563        -   956          -         -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.001       - 0.092          -         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 7.306       0    9.1         -         -
HCM Lane LOS                              A       A      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.004       - 0.303            -       -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                        RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                                2014 Total AM
7: Bemis St & Lake Ave                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.3
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       5       42       1        2       61       6         4          1      4      3         3        13
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        5       46       1        2       66       7         4          1      4      3         3        14
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.3                       7.4                       7.1                      6.9
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            44%   10%    3%   16%
Vol Thru, %                            11%   88%   88%   16%
Vol Right, %                           44%    2%    9%   68%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                       9    48    69    19
LT Vol                                    1    42    61     3
Through Vol                               4     1     6    13
RT Vol                                    4     5     2     3
Lane Flow Rate                           10    52    75    21
Geometry Grp                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Util (X)                    0.011 0.059 0.083 0.022
Departure Headway (Hd)                3.991 4.052 3.979 3.782
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     889   884   901   938
Service Time                          2.051 2.077 2.002 1.839
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.011 0.059 0.083 0.022
HCM Control Delay                       7.1   7.3   7.4   6.9
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A     A     A
HCM 95th-tile Q                           0   0.2   0.3   0.1
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                        2014 Total AM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                     8/7/2013




Movement                      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT       NBL    NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                945        26       22    678        36      53
Number                           2       12        1      6         3      18
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0        0        0      0         0       0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)                    1.00    1.00              1.00    1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        186.3    190.0   186.3    186.3    186.3   190.0
Lanes                            2        0        1        2       1       0
Cap, veh/h                   3120        85     572     3513        0       0
Arrive On Green               0.86     0.86    0.02     0.94     0.00    0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h              3610        98    1774     3725        0       0
Grp Volume(v), veh/h          530      525        24     737        0       0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1863     1845    1774     1863         0       0
Q Serve(g_s), s                3.8      3.8      0.1      1.0     0.0     0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          3.8      3.8      0.1     1.0      0.0     0.0
Prop In Lane                           0.05    1.00              0.00    0.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h       1610     1595      572    3513         0       0
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.33     0.33     0.04    0.21     0.00    0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h        1610     1595      636    3513         0       0
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00      0.00    0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh       0.9      0.9      0.5     0.1      0.0     0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.5      0.6      0.0     0.1      0.0     0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
%ile Back of Q (50%), veh/ln   0.8      0.8      0.0     0.1      0.0     0.0
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh      1.4      1.5      0.5     0.3      0.0     0.0
Lane Grp LOS                     A        A        A       A
Approach Vol, veh/h          1055                       761         0
Approach Delay, s/veh          1.4                       0.3      0.0
Approach LOS                     A                         A
Timer
Assigned Phs                      2               1        6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s       64.5             5.5     70.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s         4.0             4.0      4.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s    58.0             4.0     66.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s    5.8             2.1      3.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s        19.7             0.0     20.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                             1.0
HCM 2010 LOS                                      A
Notes
User approved volume balancing among the lanes for turning movement.




                                                                                          Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                    RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                        2014 Total PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      2.6

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                            1029       56       69    1059                27          40
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1118       61       75    1151                29          43

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1179        0             1875        590
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1149           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               726          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     588        -                63       451
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               264          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               440          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     588        -               55         451
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -               55           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              264           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              384           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.7                       77.9
HCM LOS                                                                               F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        116       -        -    588        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.628       -        - 0.128         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  77.9       -        - 12.016        -
HCM Lane LOS                              F                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 3.183        -       - 0.436           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                               2014 Total PM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                                            8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      2.4

Movement                      EBL              EBR      NBL      NBT                          SBT    SBR
Vol, veh/h                      41                4        8      28                            51     73
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0                0        0       0                             0      0
Sign Control                  Stop             Stop     Free    Free                          Free   Free
RT Channelized                   -             None        -    None                             -   None
Storage Length                   0                -        -       -                             -      -
Veh in Median Storage, #         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Grade, %                         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Peak Hour Factor                92               92       92      92                            92     92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2                2        2       2                             2      2
Mvmt Flow                       45                4        9      30                            55     79

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Major1                            Major2
Conflicting Flow All           143                95      135       0                         -         0
         Stage 1                95                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2                48                 -        -       -                         -         -
Follow-up Headway            3.518             3.318    2.218       -                         -         -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        850               962    1449        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               929                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2               974                 -        -       -                         -         -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                             -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        845              962     1449        -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        845                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               929                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 2               968                -        -        -                         -         -

Approach                       EB                         NB                                   SB
HCM Control Delay, s           9.5                        1.7                                   0
HCM LOS                          A

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT EBLn1        SBT      SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1449        -   854          -         -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.006       - 0.057          -         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 7.499       0    9.5         -         -
HCM Lane LOS                              A       A      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.018       - 0.182            -       -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                        RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                                2014 Total PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.6
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       6       62       4        4       97      10         3          3      3      8         9        25
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        7       67       4        4      105      11         3          3      3      9        10        27
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.6                       7.7                       7.3                      7.3
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            33%    8%    4%   19%
Vol Thru, %                            33%   86%   87%   21%
Vol Right, %                           33%    6%    9%   60%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                       9    72   111    42
LT Vol                                    3    62    97     9
Through Vol                               3     4    10    25
RT Vol                                    3     6      4    8
Lane Flow Rate                           10    78   121    46
Geometry Grp                              1     1      1    1
Degree of Util (X)                    0.012 0.089 0.136  0.05
Departure Headway (Hd)                 4.28 4.107 4.045 3.964
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     841   868   883   888
Service Time                           2.28 2.155 2.085 2.058
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.012  0.09 0.137 0.052
HCM Control Delay                       7.3   7.6    7.7  7.3
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A      A    A
HCM 95th-tile Q                           0   0.3    0.5  0.2
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                       2014 Total PM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                    8/7/2013




Movement                      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT      NBL    NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)               1029        56      69    1059       27      40
Number                           2       12       1       6        3      18
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0        0       0       0        0       0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)                    1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        186.3    190.0   186.3    186.3   186.3   190.0
Lanes                            2        0       1        2       1       0
Cap, veh/h                   2947      161     544      3513       0       0
Arrive On Green               0.84     0.84    0.04     0.94    0.00    0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h              3501      191    1774      3725       0       0
Grp Volume(v), veh/h          595      584       75    1151        0       0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1863     1829    1774     1863        0       0
Q Serve(g_s), s                5.2      5.2     0.3      1.8     0.0     0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          5.2      5.2     0.3      1.8     0.0     0.0
Prop In Lane                           0.10    1.00             0.00    0.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h       1568     1540     544     3513        0       0
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.38     0.38    0.14     0.33    0.00    0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h        1568     1540     618     3513        0       0
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00     0.00    0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh       1.3      1.3     0.7      0.2     0.0     0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.7      0.7     0.1      0.2     0.0     0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
%ile Back of Q (50%), veh/ln   1.5      1.4     0.0      0.1     0.0     0.0
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh      2.0      2.0     0.8      0.4     0.0     0.0
Lane Grp LOS                     A        A       A        A
Approach Vol, veh/h          1179                      1226        0
Approach Delay, s/veh          2.0                       0.4     0.0
Approach LOS                     A                         A
Timer
Assigned Phs                      2               1        6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s       62.9             7.1     70.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s         4.0             4.0      4.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s    56.0             6.0     66.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s    7.2             2.3      3.8
Green Ext Time (p_c), s        29.1             0.0     33.1
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                             1.2
HCM 2010 LOS                                      A
Notes
User approved volume balancing among the lanes for turning movement.




                                                                                         Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                   RyanG
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX G           2035 BUILDOUT LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                                   Appendix G
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                        2035 Total AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      2.6

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                            1060       29       22     760                37          56
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1152       32       24     826                40          61

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1184        0             1629        592
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1168           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               461          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     586        -                93       449
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               258          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               601          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     586        -               89         449
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -               89           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              258           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              576           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.3                       52.1
HCM LOS                                                                               F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        172       -        -    586        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.588       -        - 0.041         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  52.1       -        - 11.405        -
HCM Lane LOS                              F                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 3.154        -       - 0.127           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                               2035 Total AM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                                            8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      4.9

Movement                      EBL              EBR      NBL      NBT                          SBT    SBR
Vol, veh/h                      73                8        2      20                            30     21
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0                0        0       0                             0      0
Sign Control                  Stop             Stop     Free    Free                          Free   Free
RT Channelized                   -             None        -    None                             -   None
Storage Length                   0                -        -       -                             -      -
Veh in Median Storage, #         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Grade, %                         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Peak Hour Factor                92               92       92      92                            92     92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2                2        2       2                             2      2
Mvmt Flow                       79                9        2      22                            33     23

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Major1                            Major2
Conflicting Flow All            70                44       55       0                         -         0
         Stage 1                44                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2                26                 -        -       -                         -         -
Follow-up Headway            3.518             3.318    2.218       -                         -         -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        934             1026     1550        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               978                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2               997                 -        -       -                         -         -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                             -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        933             1026     1550        -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        933                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               978                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 2               996                -        -        -                         -         -

Approach                       EB                         NB                                   SB
HCM Control Delay, s           9.2                        0.7                                   0
HCM LOS                          A

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT EBLn1        SBT      SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1550        -   941          -         -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.001       - 0.094          -         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 7.326       0    9.2         -         -
HCM Lane LOS                              A       A      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.004       - 0.309            -       -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                        RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                                2035 Total AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.4
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       6       45       5        5       70       8         5          5      5      8         6        14
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        7       49       5        5       76       9         5          5      5      9         7        15
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.4                       7.5                       7.2                      7.2
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            33%   11%    6%   29%
Vol Thru, %                            33%   80%   84%   21%
Vol Right, %                           33%    9%   10%   50%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                      15    56    83    28
LT Vol                                    5    45    70     6
Through Vol                               5     5     8    14
RT Vol                                    5     6     5     8
Lane Flow Rate                           16    61    90    30
Geometry Grp                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Util (X)                    0.018 0.068 0.101 0.034
Departure Headway (Hd)                4.084  4.05 4.014 3.963
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     866   881   890   893
Service Time                          2.158  2.09 2.048 2.033
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.018 0.069 0.101 0.034
HCM Control Delay                       7.2   7.4   7.5   7.2
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A     A     A
HCM 95th-tile Q                         0.1   0.2   0.3   0.1
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                        2035 Total AM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                     8/7/2013




Movement                      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT       NBL    NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)               1060        29      22     760        37      56
Number                           2       12       1       6         3      18
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0        0       0       0         0       0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)                    1.00    1.00              1.00    1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        186.3    190.0   186.3    186.3    186.3   190.0
Lanes                            2        0       1         2       1       0
Cap, veh/h                   3118        87     518     3513        0       0
Arrive On Green               0.86     0.86    0.02     0.94     0.00    0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h              3608      100    1774      3725        0       0
Grp Volume(v), veh/h          595      589       24      826        0       0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1863     1845    1774     1863         0       0
Q Serve(g_s), s                4.5      4.5     0.1       1.1     0.0     0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          4.5      4.5     0.1      1.1      0.0     0.0
Prop In Lane                           0.05    1.00              0.00    0.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h       1610     1595     518     3513         0       0
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.37     0.37    0.05     0.24     0.00    0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h        1610     1595     582     3513         0       0
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00      0.00    0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh       0.9      0.9     0.6      0.1      0.0     0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.7      0.7     0.0      0.2      0.0     0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
%ile Back of Q (50%), veh/ln   1.0      0.9     0.0      0.1      0.0     0.0
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh      1.6      1.6     0.6      0.3      0.0     0.0
Lane Grp LOS                     A        A       A        A
Approach Vol, veh/h          1184                       850         0
Approach Delay, s/veh          1.6                       0.3      0.0
Approach LOS                     A                         A
Timer
Assigned Phs                      2               1        6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s       64.5             5.5     70.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s         4.0             4.0      4.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s    58.0             4.0     66.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s    6.5             2.1      3.1
Green Ext Time (p_c), s        23.8             0.0     25.6
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                             1.1
HCM 2010 LOS                                      A
Notes
User approved volume balancing among the lanes for turning movement.




                                                                                          Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                    RyanG
Queues                                                  2035 Total AM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                             8/7/2013



Lane Group                EBT     WBL    WBT     NBL
Lane Group Flow (vph)     1184      24    826    101
v/c Ratio                  0.53   0.09   0.35    0.21
Control Delay              12.0    6.6     8.1   14.6
Queue Delay                 0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Delay                12.0    6.6     8.1   14.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)     181       5    110      19
Queue Length 95th (ft)     294      13    142      60
Internal Link Dist (ft)   1000           1035    265
Turn Bay Length (ft)                50
Base Capacity (vph)       2215    256    2335    481
Starvation Cap Reductn       0       0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn        0       0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn          0       0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio         0.53    0.09   0.35    0.21
Intersection Summary




                                                                  Synchro 8 Report
                                                                            RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                        2035 Total PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      4.9

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                            1155       57       71    1190                28          43
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1255       62       77    1293                30          47

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1317        0             2087        659
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1286           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               801          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     521        -                45       406
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               223          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               402          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     521        -               38         406
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -               38           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              223           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              343           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.7                      163.9
HCM LOS                                                                               F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                         84       -        -    521        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.919       -        - 0.148         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 163.9       -        - 13.108        -
HCM Lane LOS                              F                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  4.97        -       - 0.517           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                               2035 Total PM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                                            8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      2.3

Movement                      EBL              EBR      NBL      NBT                          SBT    SBR
Vol, veh/h                      41                4        8      30                            55     73
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0                0        0       0                             0      0
Sign Control                  Stop             Stop     Free    Free                          Free   Free
RT Channelized                   -             None        -    None                             -   None
Storage Length                   0                -        -       -                             -      -
Veh in Median Storage, #         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Grade, %                         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Peak Hour Factor                92               92       92      92                            92     92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2                2        2       2                             2      2
Mvmt Flow                       45                4        9      33                            60     79

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Major1                            Major2
Conflicting Flow All           149                99      139       0                         -         0
         Stage 1                99                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2                50                 -        -       -                         -         -
Follow-up Headway            3.518             3.318    2.218       -                         -         -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        843               957    1445        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               925                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2               972                 -        -       -                         -         -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                             -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        838              957     1445        -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        838                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               925                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 2               966                -        -        -                         -         -

Approach                       EB                         NB                                   SB
HCM Control Delay, s           9.5                        1.6                                   0
HCM LOS                          A

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT EBLn1        SBT      SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1445        -   847          -         -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.006       - 0.058          -         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 7.506       0    9.5         -         -
HCM Lane LOS                              A       A      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.018       - 0.184            -       -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                                2035 Total PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.8
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       9       70       5        5      110      13         5          6      5     11        11        12
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                       10       76       5        5      120      14         5          7      5     12        12        13
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.7                       7.9                       7.4                      7.5
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            31%   11%    4%   32%
Vol Thru, %                            38%   83%   86%   32%
Vol Right, %                           31%    6%   10%   35%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                      16    84   128    34
LT Vol                                    6    70   110    11
Through Vol                               5     5    13    12
RT Vol                                    5     9      5   11
Lane Flow Rate                           17    91   139    37
Geometry Grp                              1     1      1    1
Degree of Util (X)                    0.021 0.104 0.156 0.044
Departure Headway (Hd)                4.348 4.119 4.044 4.304
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     828   863   881   837
Service Time                          2.349 2.181 2.097 2.305
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.021 0.105 0.158 0.044
HCM Control Delay                       7.4   7.7    7.9  7.5
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A      A    A
HCM 95th-tile Q                         0.1   0.3    0.6  0.1
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                       2035 Total PM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                    8/7/2013




Movement                      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT      NBL    NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)               1155        57      71    1190       28      43
Number                           2       12       1       6        3      18
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0        0       0       0        0       0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)                    1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        186.3    190.0   186.3    186.3   186.3   190.0
Lanes                            2        0       1        2       1       0
Cap, veh/h                   2962      146     494      3513       0       0
Arrive On Green               0.84     0.84    0.04     0.94    0.00    0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h              3521      174    1774      3725       0       0
Grp Volume(v), veh/h          663      654       77    1293        0       0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1863     1832    1774     1863        0       0
Q Serve(g_s), s                6.1      6.2     0.3      2.1     0.0     0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          6.1      6.2     0.3      2.1     0.0     0.0
Prop In Lane                           0.09    1.00             0.00    0.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h       1567     1541     494     3513        0       0
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.42     0.42    0.16     0.37    0.00    0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h        1567     1541     568     3513        0       0
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00     0.00    0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh       1.4      1.4     0.9      0.2     0.0     0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.8      0.9     0.1      0.3     0.0     0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
%ile Back of Q (50%), veh/ln   1.7      1.6     0.1      0.1     0.0     0.0
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh      2.2      2.2     1.0      0.5     0.0     0.0
Lane Grp LOS                     A        A       A        A
Approach Vol, veh/h          1317                      1370        0
Approach Delay, s/veh          2.2                       0.5     0.0
Approach LOS                     A                         A
Timer
Assigned Phs                      2               1        6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s       62.9             7.1     70.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s         4.0             4.0      4.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s    56.0             6.0     66.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s    8.2             2.3      4.1
Green Ext Time (p_c), s        33.5             0.0     39.6
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                             1.3
HCM 2010 LOS                                      A
Notes
User approved volume balancing among the lanes for turning movement.




                                                                                         Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                   RyanG
Queues                                                  2035 Total PM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                             8/7/2013



Lane Group                EBT     WBL    WBT     NBL
Lane Group Flow (vph)     1317      77   1293      77
v/c Ratio                  0.65   0.33   0.55    0.16
Control Delay              16.4    9.8    10.2   14.7
Queue Delay                 0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0
Total Delay                16.4    9.8   10.2    14.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)     291      16    208      14
Queue Length 95th (ft)     364      32    261      51
Internal Link Dist (ft)   1000           1035    265
Turn Bay Length (ft)                50
Base Capacity (vph)       2041    237    2335    471
Starvation Cap Reductn       0       0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn        0       0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn          0       0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio         0.65    0.32   0.55    0.16
Intersection Summary




                                                                  Synchro 8 Report
                                                                            RyanG
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX H           SIGNAL PROGRESSION




                                                                                  Appendix H
Littleton Boulevard Progression                                                                                Time-Space Diagram - Main Street
Arterial Bandwidths, Maximum Green Times                                                                                              8/8/2013

Main Street
Cross Street                        Approach
                                               20   40   60   80   100   120   140   160     180   200       220         240         260
Offset




1: Littleton Blvd
@ Curtice St


2: Alamo Ave
@ Nevada St                                                                                WB Arterial Band 16 s
48
5: Main Street                                                                             EB Arterial Band 15 s
@ Prince St                                                                                WB Arterial Band 16 s
45




11: Littleton Blvd
@ Bemis St




14: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 15 s
@ Crocker St                                                                               WB Arterial Band 16 s
97




17: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 15 s
@ Windermere St                                                                            WB Arterial Band 16 s
44




12: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 15 s
@ Datura St
40


Baseline                                                                                           J:\112310-01\Analysis\Synchro\WB Prog AM.syn
Littleton Boulevard Progression                                                                                                    With Signal at Bemis
Arterial Bandwidths, Maximum Green Times                                                                                                       8/8/2013

Main Street
Cross Street                        Approach
                                               20   40   60   80   100   120   140   160     180        200          220         240         260
Offset




1: Littleton Blvd
@ Curtice St


2: Alamo Ave
@ Nevada St                                                                                WB Arterial Band 15 s
50
5: Main Street                                                                             EB Arterial Band 16 s
@ Prince St                                                                                WB Arterial Band 15 s
50




11: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 16 s
@ Bemis St                                                                                 WB Arterial Band 15 s
46




14: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 16 s
@ Crocker St                                                                               WB Arterial Band 15 s
3




17: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 16 s
@ Windermere St                                                                            WB Arterial Band 15 s
95




12: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 16 s
@ Datura St
40


Baseline                                                                                           J:\112310-01\Analysis\Synchro\With Bemis Prog AM.syn
 ECONOMIC ANALYSIS/
DEMOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS
                                                   LITTLETON STATION




                         at
                  Littleton Station




ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
    May 3, 2013




                                2000 S. Colorado Blvd., Suite 1-10500
                                         Denver, CO 80222

                                           303.865.5430
                                                                                                  LITTLETON STATION




TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                                            PAGE
1. Executive Summary ...................................................................... 3-4


2. Market Overview .......................................................................... 5-7


3. Metro Denver Apartment Market .............................................. 8-9


4. Littleton Apartment Market .....................................................10-13


5. Downtown Littleton Commercial Real Estate ........................ 14-16


6. Demographic Analysis .............................................................. 18-19


7. Conclusion................................................................................. 20 -21


List Of Appendices
Appendix A                 Littleton Apartment Profile Pages
Appendix B                 Littleton Available Office/Commercial Space
Appendix C                 Littleton Available Retail Space
Appendix D                 Littleton Demographic Report




                                                           2
               LITTLETON STATION




EXECUTIVE SUMMARY




        3
                              EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                      LITTLETON STATION


The purpose of the Broadstone at Littleton Station economic analysis is to provide
evidence that 2100 W. Littleton Boulevard and 5759 S. Bemis Street, zoned B -2 and R
-3 respectively, should be rezoned to allow for multifamily residential luxury apart-
ment use. The Littleton Boulevard Corridor identifies the Arapahoe County Sheriff's
Facility (also known as 2100 W Littleton Boulevard) as the closest redevelopment
site to the Littleton Downtown Light Rail Station and therefore a key `Development
Catalyst' site for the corridor. Ideally located 500 feet from the Downtown Littleton
Light Rail Station and 500 feet from Historic Main Street, this site could accommo-
date future housing needs of Littleton's estimated 2013 population of 43,091.
The following economic analysis will provide an overview of the Metro Denver econ-
omy, primarily focusing on anticipated population and job growth. Next, the report
will highlight the current state of Metro Denver's multifamily apartment market.
This data will then be applied in the context of Littleton's multifamily apartment
market. By analyzing the current apartment supply in Littleton in addition to future
pipeline activity, we can accurately assess if the product type Alliance Residential is
proposing would meet the current demand in the City of Littleton. In an effort to
capture the full potential of the site, the analysis will also include examination of
Downtown Littleton's commercial real estate vitality.
The goal will be to determine if the demand for housing outweighs the demand for
commercial use at the site. Through our findings which are described in the follow-
ing report, Alliance Residential concludes that a multifamily residential luxury apart-
ment is strongly justified at the site which is comprised of 2100 W. Littleton Boule-
vard and 5759 S. Bemis Street. Due to the current supply of new luxury apartments
in Littleton, the health of Littleton's commercial real estate market, the goals of the
Comprehensive Plan, the Sterne Park Neighborhood Plan, the Littleton Boulevard
Corridor Study, and the overall projections for Metro Denver's economy as a whole,
a residential community located within walking distance from Downtown Littleton
would be the best use of the site.




                                          4
           LITTLETON STATION




MARKET
OVERVIEW




   5
                     METRO DENVER MARKET OVERVIEW                    LITTLETON STATION


The Metro Denver Economic Development Corporation stated that Metro Denver
will outperform the nation as a whole during 2013. According to Metro Denver EDC's
Chief Economist Patty Silverstein, the seven-county region will achieve full economic
recovery in 2013­ meaning that all jobs lost during the recent recession will be re-
gained­ and Metro Denver will begin a new growth path. Strong job growth was ev-
ident in Metro Denver in 2012, as 37,300 jobs were added. Overall, employment was
up 2.7 percent in 2012 and is predicted to grow by 2 percent in 2013. This strong em-
ployment growth has continued to attract new residents to Colorado, which will
help keep the residential real estate market healthy, as demand increases for houses
and apartments.
Metro Denver EDC anticipates the region's population to grow by 1.4 percent in
2013, a rate much higher than the 1 percent projected for the nation. In fact, Colora-
do was the seventh-fastest growing state in terms of population between July 2011
and July 2012. Due to the state's unique assets; a good quality of life, educated work-
force, and low business costs, it will continue to attract new residents and compa-
nies. Governor Hickenlooper and other local economic development officials have
made a strong push to attract new companies to Colorado. In addition to a talent-
ed labor pool, the Denver area offers low corporate and individual tax rates, and
affordable office space.
Governor Hickenlooper continues to stress that Metro Denver attracted more 25 -to-
34-year old workers than any city from 2009 to 2011. In direct correlation to the
above mentioned statistic, Witten Advisors recently published a report in the fourth
quarter of 2012 which stated where the active renter wants to live by generation.
The categories included, City-Downtown, City-Residential Area, Suburban Mixed-
Use, Suburban Neighborhood-Households Only, Small Town, and Rural. Of those cat-
egories, the most desired area to live was Suburban Mixed-Use. More specifically,
the number one place Generation X residents wanted to live was in the Suburban
Mixed-Use locations.
Apartment developers have reacted to Denver's strong economy in form of a very
strong pipeline in Metro Denver. According to a second quarter report released by
Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Services, the pipeline is growing rapidly
with 12,000 units under construction and another 18,000 apartments in the planning
stages. Despite the new apartments becoming available, vacancy continues to drop
and rents continue to increase, a strong indication that Metro Denver has a great
deal of pent up demand for apartments.

                                          6
                    METRO DENVER MARKET OVERVIEW                   LITTLETON STATION


Many fundamentals support apartment demand, including shrinking homeowner-
ship rates, ballooning student loans, and a demographic represented in large part by
the Echo and Boomer generations who are demanding the conveniences of apart-
ment living. All of which will continue to keep absorption rates above average over
the next few years.




                                         7
               LITTLETON STATION




METRO DENVER
 APARTMENT
  MARKET




     8
                   METRO DENVER APARTMENT MARKET                    LITTLETON STATION




It was reported in `Apartment Insights' Statistic/Trends first quarter report for 2013
that Metro Denver's vacancy rate for stabilized communities, having 50 units or
more, decreased to 4.78%.


Absorption was strong with a gain of 914 units. This increased the annual gain to
3,436 units, the highest level in seven quarters.


Metro Denver's gross rent for stabilized properties increased $14 to $994 this quar-
ter. This is a strong $61 annual gain, and 6.5% higher than a year ago.


Apartment Insights notes the upward growth of Denver's average rent is approach-
ing the $1,000 benchmark and should surpass it over the next quarter or two.


When comparing data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis and Apartment Insights
over a 10 year period, studies show that monthly rent has actually decreased in rela-
tion to personal income levels.


The Consumer Price Index adjusted average rent has decreased ­5.4% since 2000.
Although monthly rent has increased from $792 in 2002 to $955 in 2012, when adjust-
ed for inflation CPI adjusted rent has actually decreased from $1,009 in 2000 to $955
in 2012.


Widespread higher rents and lower vacancies are encouraging developers to push
forward with new construction in many locations.




                                          9
            LITTLETON STATION




LITTLETON
APARTMENT
 MARKET




    10
                         LITTLETON APARTMENT MARKET                   LITTLETON STATION



Based on data provided by Apartment Insights, the City of Littleton currently has 26
apartment communities that have 50 units or more. Of those 26 communities, 5 are
rent restricted or Section 8 housing. When analyzing the 21 communities that are
100% market rate, the total number of units available is 3,927. The average statistics
of the 21 market rate communities located in Littleton are as follows:
   21 Total Properties
   3,927 Total Units
   1982 Average Age of the Property
   C Average Property Class
   826 Average Unit Size
   $969 Average Monthly Rent Per Unit
   $1.19 Average Rent Per Square Foot
   96% Occupancy Rate


The data, which is provided on the following pages, clearly indicates that the City of
Littleton's apartment supply is limited especially when considering product built
within the last decade.
   2 Communities Built After 2002 (5151 Downtown Littleton built in 2009 and Alta
   Aspen Grove built in 2011)


Larger properties require long term institutional investors with higher maintenance
standards and strict resident qualifying criteria. Therefore, properties of 300 units or
more of any age retain their value the longest. For example, in Littleton all of the
properties over 300 units achieve a Property Class of B or better regardless of the
age of the property.
   Only 3 Communities in Littleton have 3oo+ units
   187 units Average community size




                                           11
                       LITTLETON APARTMENT MARKET                       LITTLETON STATION



Alliance would like to note that the original and current institutional investor of Pin-
nacle at Mountain Gate since 1999 is the same investor who has partnered with Alli-
ance for Broadstone at Littleton Station, and with others in Denver and around the
U.S. Investors of this caliber believe in building quality products that retain their val-
ue and have a positive and lasting affect on the community.


Lastly, in order for Littleton to attract a balanced demographic to its community,
residents must have options in terms of available housing stock. The only apartment
community with 50 units or more located in Downtown Littleton is subsidized rent-
als. Therefore, the need for an institutional market rate community within walking
distance to Downtown Littleton is evident. With the cultural shift occurring among
young couples and empty-nesters away from ownership this provides an opportuni-
ty for Littleton to capture two growing demographics.




                                           12
                                  LITTLETON APARTMENT MARKET                              LITTLETON STATION



No. Property Name                 Address                         Year Con- Total Units Average Average % Vacancy
                                                                  structed              Rent/Unit SF

 1    5151 Downtown Littleton       5151 S. Rio Grande St.          2009       350       1221       954       10%

 2        Alta Aspen Grove         7317 S. Platte River Pky.        2011       280       1457      1002       9%
 3            The Banac              293 W. Powers Pl.              1960       98        811        712       2%
 4           Broadridge             6990 S. Bannock St.             1965       54        1091      1241       4%

 5       Camden Centennial         2961 W. Centennial Dr.           1985       276       996        755       3%

 6          Canyon Crest             5754 S. Lowell Wy.             1970       90        945       1020       2%
 7      Chateau Lynnewood          5579 S. Windermere St.           1972       56        700        559       2%
 8      Columbine Meadows           8214 W. Ken Caryl Pl.           1987       277       1128      1456       3%
 9     Concordia on the Lake        6155 S. Ammons Wy.              2001       217      2002        926       1%
10    Courtyards-Olde Littleton      2100 W. Berry Ave.             1984       97        758        716       3%
 11         Gallup House              5967 S. Gallup St.            1970       139       732        629       5%

12           Monte Vista             501 W. Mineral Ave.            1995       219       1335      888        6%
13        Parkland Square          750 W. Belleview Ave.            1973       102       651        527       2%
14    Pinnacle at Mountain Gate       7501 S. Utica Dr.             1999      496        1259      949        4%

15            Riverside               4957 S. Prince Ct.            1986       248      1026        801       2%
16        South Glenn Place            6541 S. Vine St.             1970       136       728        479       2%

17    Southview Place Towers       5820 S. Windermere St.           1972       259       774        751       2%
18          Sycamore Hill           5915 S. Sycamore St.            1985       50        783        731       4%
19      Terra Vista at the Park      5341 S. Federal Cir.           1984       324       869        791       5%
20             Tiburon             700 W. Belleview Ave.            1999       83        898        777       4%
21          Windermere              5519 S. Windermere              1961       76        776       686        4%
22          Alyson Court*             5807 S. Gallup St.            1983       60        845       600        0%
23          Amity Plaza*            200 W. Sterne Pkwy.             1978       180       746        565       0%
24         Bradley House*              5844 S. Datura               1975       77        796        565       0%
25          Main Street*              2350 W. Main St.              1999       50        722        703       2%
26          Power Circle*              183 Powers Cir.              1961       69        629        733       48%

      * Subsidized Housing/Rent Restrictions
                                                             13
                  LITTLETON STATION




 DOWNTOWN LITTLETON
COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
       MARKET




          14
                    DOWNTOWN LITTLETON COMMERCIAL
                                  REAL ESTATE MARKET                         LITTLETON STATION

CBRE Global Research and Consulting provided office and retail property statistics
within a one mile radius of Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station. A summary of
their findings is as follows:
OFFICE PROPERTY STATS:
    Absorption            YTD         2012       QTD          2012 2Q
Net Absorption           2,750       -3,960     -2,615         4,903
Gross Absorption         7,827       19,396      1,849         6,042
Leasing Activity         7,327       18,531      1,849         3,632
Deliveries                 0            0          0             0

                            Direct                   Sublet                  Total
      Vacancy          SF             %          SF           %           SF           %
Vacant               36,018         20.3%         0          0.0%       36,018       20.3%
Vacant Available     36,018         20.3%         0          0.0%       36,018       20.3%
Available            46,457         26.2%       1,768        1.0%       48,225       27.2%

                                     Direct
 Asking Rent       # Spcs         Avg             Total
Full Service
Gross               21           $15.15       $10.48-$20.00
Modified Gross       4           $14.05       $9.60-$18.22
Triple Net           5           $21.98       $11.00-$25.00
RETAIL PROPERTY STATS:

  Absorption        YTD           2012         QTD           2012
Net Absorption     -8,329        -28,633      -8,175         -100

Gross Absorp-      2,858         5,938           0           1,479
Leasing Activity   2,858         3,863           0           1,479
Deliveries           0             0             0             0

                         Direct                   Sublet             Total
   Vacancy          SF             %            SF         %     SF        %
Vacant            51,766         15.5%           0       0.00% 51,766    15.5%
Vacant Available 51,766          15.5%           0       0.00% 51,766    15.5%
Available        101,664         30.5%           0       0.00% 101,664   30.5%

                                     Direct
  Asking Rent      # Spcs           Avg              Total
Full Service
Gross                1             $10.00          $10.00
Modified Gross       3             $13.95      $10.00-$22.00
Triple Net           17            $16.01       $8.00-$28.00
                                                15
                   DOWNTOWN LITTLETON COMMERCIAL
                              REAL ESTATE MARKET                      LITTLETON STATION




Commercial Office Space Summary :
   The absorption data indicates that from the second half of 2012 to the current
   quarter, office/commercial vacancies have increased significantly as a result of
   businesses moving out.
   The 27.2% vacancy rate reflects currently vacant uncommitted space as well as
   space with tenants that have given notice to move out. Therefore, the total va-
   cancy rate for office/commercial space within one mile of the Downtown Littleton
   Light Rail Station is 27.2%.
   The 27.2% vacancy rate represents approximately 48,225 SF of vacant office space
   within a one mile radius of the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station.


Retail Space Summary:
   The absorption data indicates that from the second half of 2012 to the current
   quarter, retail vacancies have increased significantly as a result of businesses mov-
   ing out.
   The 30.5% vacancy rate reflects currently vacant uncommitted space as well as
   space with tenants that have given notice to move out. Therefore, the total va-
   cancy rate for retail within a one mile radius of the Downtown Littleton Light rail
   Station for this submarket is 30.5%.
   The 30.5% vacancy rate represents approximately 101,664 SF of vacant retail space
   within a one mile radius of the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station.




                                           16
                   DOWNTOWN LITTLETON COMMERCIAL
                             REAL ESTATE MARKET                      LITTLETON STATION




The Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study:
    The Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study states that under current zoning the 2100
   W. Littleton Boulevard site allows some commercial uses incompatible with the
   redevelopment plan.
   The County's interests will be to sell the property for its maximum value.
   The district should allow both higher density multifamily and supportive commer-
   cial development compatible with higher volume commercial corridors and transit
   oriented development.


Comprehensive Plan:
   Land Use Policy 4 states it is undesirable and unnecessary to introduce additional
   commercial land use in the interior of Progress, Ketring, or Sterne Park neighbor-
   hoods.
   Commercial land uses should be kept along the major arterials of Main Street,
   Broadway, and Santa Fe.


The City's redevelopment tools, including the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study and
the Comprehensive Plan, encourage that the 2100 W Littleton Boulevard site be uti-
lized for higher density multifamily residential use. Since 2002, the purpose of this
guidance has been to concentrate retail on Main Street and to support its success
through multifamily density within walking distance to downtown.




                                          17
              LITTLETON STATION




DEMOGRAPHIC
 ANALYSIS




     18
                            DEMOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS                    LITTLETON STATION




A Demographic Report on Littleton was provided by CBRE Global Research and Con-
sulting and from that report the following statistics have been highlighted as they
relate to the economic vitality of Alliance's proposed project.
2013 Estimated Statistics for Littleton:
   Based on the 2013 estimated household incomes, income ranging between
   $50,000 to $74,999 is the most common income bracket in Littleton. The antici-
   pated average household income of Broadstone at Littleton Station residents will
   be $59,914, which falls within Littleton's most prominent income range.
   The majority of households are 1 person and 2 person households.
   The majority of households have 1 vehicle.
   The majority of the population is between ages 45 to 64 (29.4%) and ages 25 to
   44 (24.3%). These are the two target demographics for Broadstone at Littleton
   Station, empty-nesters/baby boomers and young professionals/emerging families
   respectively.
   The majority of housing is 1 unit detached. Multifamily housing of 50 units or
   more comprises only 5.5%, therefore indicating the lack of institutional product.
   The majority of housing structures were built between 1970 and 1980, with only
   2.5% built in 2005 or later.
   Only 5.8% of the employed population over 16 years of age utilizes public trans-
   portation to get to work. Our project will help reverse this under utilized public
   transportation statistic.
   The highest percentage of families are married couples with no own children.
   This is the emerging family target demographic for Broadstone at Littleton Sta-
   tion.




                                           19
             LITTLETON STATION




CONCLUSION




    20
                                   CONCLUSION                        LITTLETON STATION




 The results of the economic analysis indicate that 2100 W. Littleton Boulevard and
5759 S. Bemis Street should be rezoned to allow for multifamily residential luxury
apartment use. As identified in the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study, the above
mentioned site is a `Development Catalyst'. The proximity to the Downtown Little-
ton Light Rail Station and the walkability to Littleton's Historic Main Street are im-
portant attributes and justify higher density multifamily compatible with transit ori-
ented development.
Based on the high vacancy rate of office and retail properties within a one mile radi-
us of the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station, utilizing 2100 W Littleton Boulevard
as commercial space that will compete against Historic Downtown Littleton is not
beneficial. Rather, the economic vitality of office and retail property in Littleton
could be strengthened by the introduction of additional residents into Downtown
Littleton through a higher density apartment community. Based on the underwrit-
ten rents of the proposed unit mix and the assumption that individuals will spend
30% of their income on housing and 15% on discretionary income, the projected dis-
cretionary income for Broadstone at Littleton Station, if the project was 95% occu-
pied, would be $2,475,930 annually. It is a reasonable expectation that a portion of
that total would be spent directly in Littleton, and more specifically Historic Down-
town Littleton.
It is evident that the current supply of apartments in Littleton does not provide an
adequate range of options to accommodate the demand of residents who would
like to live in Littleton and benefit from all the conveniences that the City has to
offer. There is a clear demand for luxury, high-end apartments and yet there is only
one Class A Property over 50 units in all of Littleton (the other A property is age re-
stricted). The demand of empty nesters and young couples living in Littleton, as well
as emerging demand from population growth and in-migration of the same demo-
graphic provides an opportunity for the City of Littleton to implement a plan that
has been envisioned since 2002.



                                          21
                   LITTLETON STATION




     EXHIBIT A
LITTLETON APARTMENT
   PROFILE PAGES




         22
                                                                                                       PROPERTY INFORMATION
              5151 DOWNTOWN LITTLETON                                             5151 S. Rio Grande St.               Total Units                 350
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                   APN:           2077-16-2-25-001
                                                                                  County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.62296
                                                                                  Phone:             (303) 797-7600 Longitude:              -105.01206
                                                                                  Classification:                   B Map Book:                 343 R:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:              122.5125 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                       13.08 Census Tract:               65.01
                                                                                  Density:                     26.76 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: Alexan                    RD NS/ EW:           5663/ 5130
                                                                                  Downtown Littleton
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                            PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                  2009 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                     Garden Detached Garage:                39
                                                                                  Construction:          Frm & Stuc Covered:                        74
                                                                                  Roof Type:                 Built-up Open:                        441
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                      9 Parking/Unit                1.58
                                                                                  Stories                           3 Parking/Bed                    1
                                                                                  Rentable SF:               333913

              OWNER                               MANAGER                                     POLICIES                            LAST SALE
SPUS6 Littleton LP                    Riverstone Residential Group                 Leases              8-12 month    Amount               $60,000,000
 (CBRE Investments)                    (Riverstone Residential Group)              Applicant Fee              $45    Date                  05/24/2012
800 Boylston St.                      5575 DTC Pky.                                Pets Allowed              Most    Price/unit              $171,429
20th Floor                            Suite 250
Boston, MA 02199                      Greenwood Village, CO 80111                  Pet Dep.         $250R; $250N     Price/SF                 $178.87
(617) 425-2842                        (303) 217-8400                               Pet Charge/Mo              $30
           UNIT AMENITIES                        COMMUNITY AMENITIES                         UTILITIES
9' + Ceilings     Priv Bal/Patio         BBQ                                          Util          Meter
Air Cond          Roman Tub              Billiards                                    Gas:           Indiv
Cable TV Opt      Slf-Cln Oven           Clubhouse                                    Elect:         Indiv
Ceiling Fans      Storage Room           Computer Room                                Water:         Indiv
Dishwasher        T1 Opt                 Htd Swim Pool                                Util        System
Disposal          W/D Hook-up            Kitchen                                      Heat:          Indiv
Fireplace Some    Walk-ins               Laundry Room                                 Cool:          Indiv
Frst Free Ref     Washer/Dryer           Weight/Exer Rm                               Hot Wa:        Indiv
Ice Maker                                                                                        Paid By
Kit Island Some                                                                       Util      Own Res Fuel:
Microwave                                                                             Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                      Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                         AFFORDABLE STATUS                       Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                           10% Gov't Subsidized:                           0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                           13% Rent Restricted:                            0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    10%                                                Water:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                      7%                                                Sewer:           X
                                                                                      Trash:           X
                                        UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                     COMMENTS
               Beds/     Net    Fur           Cur Gross Rents                     Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths      SF     Unf   Low    High    $/SF Av. $/SF                Low Rent   /NR Fee       CONCESSIONS: $525 off move-in with 12
                                                                                                           month lease.
A     Flat 1   1/1       667    U     $1,005 $0      $1.51 $1.51                  $1,005     $250/250
B     Flat 21 1 / 1      667    U     $985   $1,005 $1.48 $1.49                   $985       $250/250      INCOME: Rents increase $150 with covered
                                                                                                           (tuck-under garage) parking and $120 with
C     Flat 77 1 / 1      742    U     $949   $999    $1.28 $1.31                  $949       $250/250
                                                                                                           detached garage.
D     Flat 2   1/1       768    U     $1,049 $1,099 $1.37 $1.40                   $1,049     $250/250
                                                                                                           UTILITIES: Fireplaces are electric (13% of
E     Flat 66 1 / 1      768    U     $1,049 $1,099 $1.37 $1.40                   $1,049     $250/250
                                                                                                           units have them).
F     Flat 1   1/1       813    U     $1,099 $0      $1.35 $1.35                  $1,099     $250/250
                                                                                                           MISC: Each unit has either a stacked or
G     Flat 4   1/1       852    U     $1,049 $1,099 $1.23 $1.26                   $1,049     $250/250
                                                                                                           side-by-side washer/dryer. Units have
H     Flat 29 2 / 2      1020   U     $1,379 $1,429 $1.35 $1.38                   $1,379     $250/250      built-in computer desks and granite
I     Flat 29 2 / 2      1137   U     $1,250 $1,300 $1.10 $1.12                   $1,250     $250/250      countertops. Has an onsite yoga center and
                                                                                                           dog wash/park.
J     Flat 14 2 / 2      1150   U     $1,250 $1,300 $1.09 $1.11                   $1,250     $250/250
K     Flat 12 2 / 2      1151   U     $1,401 $1,451 $1.22 $1.24                   $1,401     $250/250
L     Flat 20 2 / 2      1160   U     $1,379 $1,429 $1.19 $1.21                   $1,379     $250/250
M     Flat 47 2 / 2      1172   U     $1,379 $1,429 $1.18 $1.20                   $1,379     $250/250
N     Flat 3   3/2       1293   U     $1,650 $1,700 $1.28 $1.30                   $1,650     $250/250
O     Flat 24 3 / 2      1293   U     $1,650 $1,700 $1.28 $1.30                   $1,650     $250/250
           350           954          $1,197         $1.26 $1.28
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                    1Q 2013
                    ALTA ASPEN GROVE                                                                  PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                 7317 S. Platte River Pky.            Total Units                 280
                                                                                 Littleton,CO 80120                   APN:           2077-29-3-03-001
                                                                                 County:                   Arapahoe Latitude:                39.58615
                                                                                 Phone:             (303) 798-3600 Longitude:               -105.0276
                                                                                 Classification:                   A Map Book:                     0:
                                                                                 Prop. Rank:               143.3902 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                                 Acres:                        16.99 Census Tract:              56.23
                                                                                 Density:                      16.48 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                                 Past Name: N/A                       RD NS/ EW:           5924/ 5213
                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION                            PARKING
                                                                                 Year Built:                   2011 Attached Garage:              187
                                                                                 Style:                      Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                 Construction:          Wood Side Covered:                          0
                                                                                 Roof Type:            Comp Shngl Open:                           371
                                                                                 Rental Bldgs                     17 Parking/Unit                1.99
                                                                                 Stories                       2 & 3 Parking/Bed                  1.3
                                                                                 Rentable SF:                280448

             OWNER                              MANAGER                                      POLICIES                            LAST SALE
Wood Partners                        Greystar Real Estate Partners                Leases              6-12 month    Amount                             N/A
 (Wood Partners)                     (Greystar Real Estate Partners )             Applicant Fee              $45    Date
5299 DTC Blvd.                       1875 Lawrence St.                            Pets Allowed              Most    Price/unit
Suite 700                            Suite 650
Greenwood Village, CO 80111          Denver, CO 80202                             Pet Dep.         $200R; $200N     Price/SF
(303) 468-7450                       (303) 308-9000                               Pet Charge/Mo              $35
           UNIT AMENITIES                        COMMUNITY AMENITIES                        UTILITIES
9' + Ceilings     Microwave              BBQ                                         Util          Meter
Air Cond          Priv Bal/Patio         Billiards                                   Gas:           Indiv
Attach Gar Some Roman Tub                Clubhouse                                   Elect:         Indiv
Cable TV Opt      Slf-Cln Oven           Computer Room                               Water:         Indiv
Ceiling Fans      T1 Opt                 Controlled Entry                            Util        System
Dishwasher        W/D Hook-up            Htd Swim Pool                               Heat:          Indiv
Disposal          Walk-ins               Kitchen                                     Cool:          Indiv
Fireplace Some    Washer/Dryer           Spa                                         Hot Wa:        Indiv
Frst Free Ref                            Weight/Exer Rm                                         Paid By
Ice Maker                                                                            Util      Own Res Fuel:
Kitchen Island                                                                       Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                     Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                         AFFORDABLE STATUS                      Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                            9% Gov't Subsidized:                          0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                            5% Rent Restricted:                           0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    10%                                               Water:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     46%                                               Sewer:           X
                                                                                     Trash:           X
                                          UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
               Beds/      Net      Fur           Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths       SF       Unf   Low    High    $/SF Av. $/SF             Low Rent   /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A     Flat 17 1 / 1       695      U     $975   $0      $1.40 $1.40               $1,050     $200/200     INCOME: Rents increase $150 with optional
B     Flat 9   1/1        704      U     $1,050 $0      $1.49 $1.49               $1,099     $200/200     attached garage.
C     Flat 24 1 / 1       786      U     $1,325 $1,505 $1.69 $1.80                $1,209     $200/200     UTILITIES: Aquatherm heating.
D     Flat 17 1 / 1       788      U     $1,085 $0      $1.38 $1.38               $1,330     $200/200
                                                                                                          MISC: 18 total floor plans, with Models C, L
E     Flat 9   1/1        833      U     $1,085 $0      $1.30 $1.30               $1,175     $200/200     and O unit sizes averaged. Model I is a one
F     Flat 14 1 / 1       893      U     $1,350 $0      $1.51 $1.51               $1,285     $200/200     bedroom with den. Models G, J, and 11 O
                                                                                                          have attached garages included in rent.
G     Flat 34 1 / 1       942      U     $1,280 $0      $1.36 $1.36               $1,299     $200/200
                                                                                                          Models C and K-L have attached garage
H     Flat 23 1 / 1       995      U     $1,340 $1,570 $1.35 $1.46                $1,380     $200/200     option. Units have crown molding. Has
I     Flat 20 2 / 1       901      U     $1,175 $0      $1.30 $1.30               $1,300     $300/200     outdoor fireplace.
J     Flat 34 2 / 1.75    1222     U     $1,825 $0      $1.49 $1.49               $1,499     $300/200
K     Flat 11 2 / 2       1135     U     $1,800 $0      $1.59 $1.59               $1,760     $300/200
L     Flat 32 2 / 2       1143     U     $1,625 $0      $1.42 $1.42               $1,850     $200/200
M     Flat 20 2 / 2       1179     U     $1,575 $1,620 $1.34 $1.35                $1,500     $200/200
N     Flat 4   3/2        1349     U     $1,800 $0      $1.33 $1.33               $1,760     $400/200
O     Flat 12 3 / 2       1460     U     $2,225 $2,325 $1.52 $1.56                $2,250     $400/200
           280            1,002          $1,436         $1.43 $1.45
1Q 2013                                                    © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                     1Q 2013
                              BANAC, THE                                                                PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                    293 W. Powers Pl.                   Total Units                  98
                                                                                    Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-15-3-09-003
                                                                                    County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.61576
                                                                                    Phone:            (720) 230-9444 Longitude:              -104.99194
                                                                                    Classification:                  C Map Book:                 344 T:
                                                                                    Prop. Rank:              63.9847 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                    Acres:                       2.00 Census Tract:               66.01
                                                                                    Density:                    48.93 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                    Past Name: Park Vista               RD NS/ EW:           5714/ 5022
                                                                                             CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                    Year Built:                 1960 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                    Style:                    Midrise Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                    Construction:               Brick Covered:                       17
                                                                                    Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                        141
                                                                                    Rental Bldgs                     4 Parking/Unit                1.61
                                                                                    Stories                 3.5 & 4.5 Parking/Bed                  1.02
                                                                                    Rentable SF:               69769

               OWNER                                    MANAGER                                 POLICIES                           LAST SALE
Sugarberry Holdings LLC                    Larry Page                                Leases                12 month   Amount                $4,185,000
 (Page, Larry)                              (Page, Larry)                            Applicant Fee              $30   Date                  02/11/2009
4 Haystack Row                             4 Haystack Row                            Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $42,704
Cherry Hill, CO 80113                      Cherry Hill, CO 80113
(303) 796-7080                             (303) 796-7080                            Pet Dep.                $200R    Price/SF                  $59.98
                                                                                     Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                           COMMUNITY AMENITIES                         UTILITIES
Air Cond                                     Controlled Entry                           Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                                 Laundry Room                               Gas:         Master
Dishwasher                                                                              Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                                                                Water:       Master
Frst Free Ref                                                                           Util        System
Priv Bal/Patio Some                                                                     Heat:         Boiler
Storage Room                                                                            Cool:          Indiv
T1 Opt                                                                                  Hot Wa:       Boiler
                                                                                                  Paid By
              VACANCY                           AFFORDABLE STATUS                       Util      Own Res Fuel:
Curr Qtr                              2% Gov't Subsidized:                           0% Heat:       X X Gas
Prev Qtr                              2% Rent Restricted:                            0% Cool:            X Elect
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                       2%                                                Hot Water: X X Gas
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                        6%                                                Stove:           X Elect
                                                                                        ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                        Water:      X
                                                                                        Sewer:      X
                                                                                        Trash:      X
                                             UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                 COMMENTS
                      Beds/   Net    Fur           Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No   Baths   SF     Unf    Low    High $/SF Av. $/SF               Low Rent    /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   12   1/1     585    U      $675   $800 $1.15 $1.26                 $675        $300/0      INCOME: Rents increase $35 with covered
B         Flat   6    1/1     631    U      $675   $800 $1.07 $1.17                 $675        $300/0      parking.
C         Flat   20   1/1     681    U      $675   $800 $0.99 $1.08                 $675        $300/0      UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
D         Flat   4    1/1     700    U      $675   $800 $0.96 $1.05                 $675        $300/0
                                                                                                            MISC: A significant rehab was completed
E         Flat   16   2/1     683    U      $775   $950 $1.13 $1.26                 $775        $300/0      2nd quarter 2009, with the exception of 30
F         Flat   16   2/1     720    U      $775   $950 $1.08 $1.20                 $775        $300/0      units which are being renovated for water
                                                                                                            pipe and heat replacement. The former
G         Flat   13   2/1     765    U      $775   $950 $1.01 $1.13                 $775        $300/0
                                                                                                            "New Yorker" and "Executive" apartments
H         Flat   10   2/1     875    U      $775   $950 $0.89 $0.99                 $775        $300/0      (38 units built in 1959) were added to the
I         Flat   1    3/2     1400   U      $1,050 $0    $0.75 $0.75                $1,050      $300/0      unit mix 2nd quarter 2009. These 38 units (3
                                                                                                            Model D and all Models A, G and H) are
                 98           712           $735         $1.03 $1.14
                                                                                                            included in the Last Sale price. Park Vista
                                                                                                            (60 units) was built in 1961 and the Year
                                                                                                            Built shown is a weighted average.
1Q 2013                                                       © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                   1Q 2013
                                BROADRIDGE                                                                  PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                        6990 S. Bannock St.                Total Units                  54
                                                                                        Littleton,CO 80120                 APN:           2077-27-2-22-001
                                                                                        County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:              39.591916
                                                                                        Phone:            (303) 795-5300 Longitude:           -104.992735
                                                                                        Classification:                 B Map Book:                 374 B:
                                                                                        Prop. Rank:              87.4815 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                                        Acres:                       4.16 Census Tract:              66.03
                                                                                        Density:                    12.99 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                                        Past Name: N/A                     RD NS/ EW:           5883/ 5026
                                                                                                 CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                                        Year Built:                 1965 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                                        Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                        Construction:               Brick Covered:                      12
                                                                                        Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                           63
                                                                                        Rental Bldgs                    8 Parking/Unit                1.39
                                                                                        Stories                         2 Parking/Bed                 0.58
                                                                                        Rentable SF:               67018

               OWNER                                       MANAGER                                  POLICIES                         LAST SALE
Broadridge Apartments LLC                     Broadridge Apartments LLC                  Leases                 6 month Amount                $2,100,000
 (Princeton Investments LLC)                   (Princeton Investments LLC)               Applicant Fee              $20 Date                  08/01/1995
7315 E. Orchard Rd.                           7315 E. Orchard Rd.                        Pets Allowed              None Price/unit               $38,889
Suite 250                                     Suite 250
Greenwood Village, CO 80111                   Greenwood Village, CO 80111                Pet Dep.                       Price/SF                  $31.33
(303) 792-2100                                (303) 792-2100                             Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                             COMMUNITY AMENITIES                           UTILITIES
Air Cond                                        Htd Swim Pool                               Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                                                                                Gas:           Indiv
Ceiling Fans Some                                                                           Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                                                                    Water:       Master
Fireplace Some                                                                              Util        System
Frst Free Ref                                                                               Heat:          Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                              Cool:          Indiv
Storage Room                                                                                Hot Wa:        Indiv
T1 Opt                                                                                                 Paid By
W/D Hook-up                                                                                 Util      Own Res Fuel:
Washer/Dryer                                                                                Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                            Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                              AFFORDABLE STATUS                        Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                                 4% Gov't Subsidized:                            0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                                 2% Rent Restricted:                             0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                          2%                                                 Water:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                           6%                                                 Sewer:           X
                                                                                            Trash:           X
                                                 UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                COMMENTS
                      Beds/     Net     Fur             Cur Gross Rents                   Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model     Type   No   Baths     SF      Unf    Low     High    $/SF Av. $/SF              Low Rent   /NR Fee    CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   8    2/1       899     U      $950    $0      $1.06 $1.06                $950       $500/0     INCOME: Rents increase $25 with covered
B         Flat   24   2/2       1023    U      $950    $0      $0.93 $0.93                $950       $500/0     parking.
C         TH     12   3 / 1.5   1472    U      $1,200 $1,300 $0.82 $0.85                  $1,200     $500/0     UTILITIES: AC units are wall. Owner
D         TH     10   3/2       1761    U      $1,300 $1,400 $0.74 $0.77                  $1,300     $500/0     charges water, sewer and trash costs back
                                                                                                                to residents.
                 54             1,241          $1,070          $0.87 $0.88
1Q 2013                                                           © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                                                                                                    PROPERTY INFORMATION
                   CAMDEN CENTENNIAL                                            2961 W. Centennial Dr.             Total Units                 276
                                                                                Littleton,CO 80123                 APN:           2077-17-2-18-001
                                                                                County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.6197
                                                                                Phone:            (303) 795-3018 Longitude:               -105.025
                                                                                Classification:                 B Map Book:                 343 Q:
                                                                                Prop. Rank:             100.2739 Submarket:                    JEF
                                                                                Acres:                       9.10 Census Tract:               56.2
                                                                                Density:                    30.33 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                Past Name: Park at                 RD NS/ EW:           5686/ 5199
                                                                                Centennial
                                                                                         CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                                Year Built:                 1985 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                          0
                                                                                Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                          414
                                                                                Rental Bldgs                   12 Parking/Unit                  1.5
                                                                                Stories                     2 & 3 Parking/Bed                 1.05
                                                                                Rentable SF:              208440

             OWNER                                MANAGER                                   POLICIES                           LAST SALE
ORI-Colorado Inc                       Camden Property Trust                     Leases                    None   Amount               $12,500,000
(Camden Property Trust)                 (Camden Property Trust)                  Applicant Fee              $50   Date                  09/01/1995
3 Greenway Plaza                       9250 E. Costilla Ave.                     Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $45,290
Suite 1300                             Suite 540
Houston, TX 77046                      Greenwood Village, CO 80112               Pet Dep.                   $0R   Price/SF                  $59.83
(713) 354-2500                         (303) 220-8080                            Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                       UTILITIES
Air Cond          W/D Hook-up            Billiards                                  Util          Meter
Cable TV          Walk-ins Some          Clubhouse                                  Gas:           Indiv
Ceiling Fans      Wash/Dry Some          Htd Swim Pool                              Elect:         Indiv
Dishwasher                               Kitchen                                    Water:       Master
Disposal                                 Laundry Room                               Util        System
Fireplace                                Spa                                        Heat:          Indiv
Frst Free Ref                            Weight/Exer Rm                             Cool:          Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                      Hot Wa:        Indiv
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                                   Paid By
T1 Opt                                                                              Util      Own Res Fuel:
Vaulted Ceil Some                                                                   Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                    Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                        AFFORDABLE STATUS                      Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                           3% Gov't Subsidized:                          0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                           5% Rent Restricted:                           0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    5%                                               Water:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     5%                                               Sewer:           X
                                                                                    Trash:           X
                                          UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                COMMENTS
                   Beds/   Net   Fur            Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model     Type No Baths    SF    Unf   Low     High    $/SF Av. $/SF             Low Rent   /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat 48 1 / 1    650   U     $817    $1,063 $1.26 $1.45                $712       $0/149      UTILITIES: AC units are wall. Owner
B         Flat 108 1 / 1   670   U     $802    $1,068 $1.20 $1.40                $729       $0/149      charges water, sewer and trash costs back
                                                                                                        to residents.
C         Flat 72 2 / 1    850   U     $943    $1,080 $1.11 $1.19                $750       $0/149
D         Flat 48 2 / 2    910   U     $1,016 $1,315 $1.12 $1.28                 $900       $0/149      MISC: Model C have walk-in closets. Rent
                                                                                                        Pricing Program used.
               276         755         $879            $1.17 $1.32
1Q 2013                                                   © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                            CANYON CREST                                                                    PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                       5754 S. Lowell Wy.                   Total Units                   90
                                                                                       Littleton,CO 80123                   APN:           2077-18-4-18-001
                                                                                       County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:                  39.6116
                                                                                       Phone:             (303) 794-2241 Longitude:               -105.0354
                                                                                       Classification:                   C Map Book:                 343 T:
                                                                                       Prop. Rank:               84.2384 Submarket:                     JEF
                                                                                       Acres:                        3.25 Census Tract:               56.18
                                                                                       Density:                     27.69 Condo Map:                     No
                                                                                       Past Name: N/A                       RD NS/ EW:           5744/ 5255
                                                                                                CONSTRUCTION                            PARKING
                                                                                       Year Built:                  1970 Attached Garage:                  0
                                                                                       Style:                     Garden Detached Garage:                  0
                                                                                       Construction:          Frm&Brick Covered:                         45
                                                                                       Roof Type:                 Built-up Open:                   Unknown
                                                                                       Rental Bldgs                     10 Parking/Unit            Unknown
                                                                                       Stories                           3 Parking/Bed             Unknown
                                                                                       Rentable SF:                91830

               OWNER                                      MANAGER                                  POLICIES                            LAST SALE
FW Madison Marktg Grp/Bellaire                Unique Management Solutions               Leases              6-12 month    Amount                $4,100,000
 (Unique Properties LLC)                       (Unique Properties LLC)                  Applicant Fee              $40    Date                  08/01/2008
1873 S. Bellaire St.                          1873 S. Bellaire St.                      Pets Allowed              Most    Price/unit               $45,556
Suite 825                                     Suite 825
Denver, CO 80222                              Denver, CO 80222                          Pet Dep.         $200R; $100N     Price/SF                  $44.65
(303) 321-5888                                (303) 321-5888                            Pet Charge/Mo              $35
           UNIT AMENITIES                             COMMUNITY AMENITIES                         UTILITIES
Air Cond          T1 Opt                        BBQ                                        Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt      W/D Hook-up                   Htd Swim Pool                              Gas:           Indiv
Ceiling Fans      Some                          Laundry Room                               Elect:         Indiv
Some              Walk-ins Some                 Playground                                 Water:       Master
Dishwasher                                      Spa                                        Util        System
Disposal                                        Weight/Exer Rm                             Heat:          Indiv
Doorbell                                                                                   Cool:          Indiv
Frst Free Ref                                                                              Hot Wa:        Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                                        Paid By
Priv Entry Some                                                                            Util      Own Res Fuel:
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                               Heat:            X Gas
Stacked W/D                                                                                Cool:            X Elect
Some                                                                                       Hot Water:       X Gas
                                                                                           Stove:           X Elect
              VACANCY                              AFFORDABLE STATUS                       ElecOthr:        X
Curr Qtr                                 2% Gov't Subsidized:                           0% Water:           X
Prev Qtr                                 3% Rent Restricted:                            0% Sewer:           X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                          4%                                                Trash:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                           6%
                                                UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
                      Beds/     Net     Fur           Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model     Type   No   Baths     SF      Unf   Low    High    $/SF Av. $/SF             Low Rent   /NR Fee       CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   30   1/1       640     U     $660   $700    $1.03 $1.06               $660       $300/150      INCOME: Rents increase $40 with covered
B         Flat   30   2 / 1.5   851     U     $840   $870    $0.99 $1.00               $840       $300/150      parking and $30-$38 with washer/dryer.
                                                                                                                High rent is for wood flooring.
C         TH     22   2 / 1.5   1450    U     $1,119 $1,350 $0.77 $0.85                $1,119     $500/150
D         TH     8    3 / 2.5   1900    U     $1,409 $1,559 $0.74 $0.78                $1,409     $500/150      UTILITIES: Some buildings have central air
                                                                                                                conditioning, with the balance having wall
                 90             1,020         $899           $0.88 $0.92
                                                                                                                units. Owner charges water, sewer and
                                                                                                                trash costs back to residents.
                                                                                                                MISC: Renovation completed 4th quarter
                                                                                                                2008. Models C-D have basements and
                                                                                                                private entries. Last Sale price was severely
                                                                                                                affected by foundation problems.
1Q 2013                                                          © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                     1Q 2013
                   CHATEAU LYNNEWOOD                                                                  PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                  5579 S. Windermere St.              Total Units                  56
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-16-3-01-020
                                                                                  County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:               39.615716
                                                                                  Phone:            (303) 794-4651 Longitude:            -105.006927
                                                                                  Classification:                  C Map Book:                 344 S:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:              64.1791 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                       1.12 Census Tract:               66.01
                                                                                  Density:                    50.00 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5715/ 5102
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                 1972 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                  Mid (Elv) Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                  Construction:          Conc&Brk Covered:                          0
                                                                                  Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                         68
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                     1 Parking/Unit                1.21
                                                                                  Stories                          6 Parking/Bed                 0.87
                                                                                  Rentable SF:               31322

              OWNER                                MANAGER                                    POLICIES                           LAST SALE
Chateau Lynnewood LLC                  Eugene & Bernice Straub                     Leases              9,12 month   Amount                $2,700,000
 (Straub, Eugene & Bernice)             (Straub, Eugene & Bernice)                 Applicant Fee              $25   Date                  04/01/2000
26 W. Dry Creek Cr.                    26 W. Dry Creek Cr.                         Pets Allowed              Cats   Price/unit               $48,214
Suite 600                              Suite 600
Littleton, CO 80120                    Littleton, CO 80120                         Pet Dep.                $150R    Price/SF                   $86.2
(303) 996-4334                         (303) 996-4334                              Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                          COMMUNITY AMENITIES                        UTILITIES
Air Cond                                  BBQ                                         Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                              Billiards                                   Gas:         Master
Ceiling Fans                              Clubhouse                                   Elect:         Indiv
Dishwasher                                Kitchen                                     Water:       Master
Disposal                                  Laundry Room                                Util        System
Frst Free Ref                             Sauna                                       Heat:         Boiler
Slf-Cln Oven                              Weight/Exer Rm                              Cool:          Indiv
Storage Room                                                                          Hot Wa:       Boiler
T1 Opt                                                                                          Paid By
                                                                                      Util      Own Res Fuel:
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS                      Heat:       X        Gas
Curr Qtr                             2% Gov't Subsidized:                          0% Cool:            X Elect
Prev Qtr                             2% Rent Restricted:                           0% Hot Water: X         Gas
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                      2%                                               Stove:           X Elect
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                       2%                                               ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                      Water:      X
                                                                                      Sewer:      X
                                                                                      Trash:      X
                                          UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
                    Beds/     Net   Fur         Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths     SF    Unf Low High $/SF       Av. $/SF             Low Rent    /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   34 1 / 1     533   U   $650 $670 $1.22 $1.24                    $650        $300/0       UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
B         Flat   22 2 / 1     600   U   $750 $775 $1.25 $1.27                    $750        $300/0
                 56           559       $689         $1.23 $1.25
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                   COLUMBINE MEADOWS                                                               PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                               8214 W. Ken Caryl Pl.               Total Units                 277
                                                                               Littleton,CO 80128                  APN:                    187887
                                                                               County:                  Jefferson Latitude:             39.579637
                                                                               Phone:            (303) 972-2967 Longitude:            -105.089107
                                                                               Classification:                  B Map Book:                 372 J:
                                                                               Prop. Rank:                90.153 Submarket:                    JEF
                                                                               Acres:                       26.77 Census Tract:             120.56
                                                                               Density:                     10.35 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                               Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5970/ 5543
                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                               Year Built:                  1987 Attached Garage:              347
                                                                               Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                               Construction:           Frm&Side Covered:                         0
                                                                               Roof Type:            Comp Shngl Open:                          347
                                                                               Rental Bldgs                    58 Parking/Unit                2.51
                                                                               Stories                          2 Parking/Bed                 1.13
                                                                               Rentable SF:              403207

              OWNER                            MANAGER                                     POLICIES                        LAST SALE
Ken Caryl Wadsworth Dev. Gp.        Model Realty/Segan Inv. Co.                 Leases                12 month Amount                         N/A
 (Model Realty/Segan Inv. Co.)       (Model Realty/Segan Inv. Co.)              Applicant Fee              $40 Date                    10/01/1987
240 Josephine St.                   240 Josephine St.                           Pets Allowed             None Price/unit
Suite 202                           Suite 202
Denver, CO 80206                    Denver, CO 80206                            Pet Dep.                       Price/SF
(303) 321-5600                      (303) 321-5600                              Pet Charge/Mo               $0
           UNIT AMENITIES                      COMMUNITY AMENITIES                        UTILITIES
Air Cond Some     T1 Opt                 BBQ                                       Util          Meter
Attach Gar        Vaulted Ceil Some      Clubhouse                                 Gas:           Indiv
Cable TV Opt      W/D Hook-up            Htd Swim Pool                             Elect:         Indiv
Ceiling Fans      Washer/Dryer           Kitchen                                   Water:       Master
Some                                     Playground                                Util        System
Dishwasher                               Sport Court                               Heat:          Indiv
Disposal                                                                           Cool:          Indiv
Fireplace                                                                          Hot Wa:        Indiv
Frst Free Ref                                                                                 Paid By
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                     Util      Own Res Fuel:
Some                                                                               Heat:            X Gas
Priv Entry                                                                         Cool:            X Elect
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                       Hot Water:       X Gas
                                                                                   Stove:           X Elect
              VACANCY                        AFFORDABLE STATUS                     ElecOthr:        X
Curr Qtr                           3% Gov't Subsidized:                         0% Water:      X
Prev Qtr                           3% Rent Restricted:                          0% Sewer:      X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    3%                                              Trash:      X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     3%
                                         UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                               COMMENTS
               Beds/       Net     Fur          Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths        SF      Unf   Low    High $/SF Av. $/SF               Low Rent   /NR Fee    CONCESSIONS: Model A $20 off each
                                                                                                       month; Models B and H $115 off each
A     TH   7   1/1         959     U     $915   $925 $0.95 $0.96                 $915       $500/0
                                                                                                       month; Model C $65 off each month; and
B     TH   2   2 / 1.5     1204    U     $1,055 $0    $0.88 $0.88                $1,055     $500/0     Model D $45 off each month.
C     TH   85 2 / 2.5      1416    U     $1,025 $0    $0.72 $0.72                $1,025     $500/0
                                                                                                       MISC: Model B is one bedroom with den
D     TH   48 2 / 2.5      1455    U     $1,100 $0    $0.76 $0.76                $1,100     $500/0     and Model F is two bedroom with den. All
E     TH   70 2 / 2.5      1455    U     $1,180 $0    $0.81 $0.81                $1,180     $500/0     units have attached garages.
F     TH   9   3 / 2.5     1588    U     $1,155 $0    $0.73 $0.73                $1,155     $500/0
G     TH   24 3 / 2.5      1604    U     $1,280 $0    $0.80 $0.80                $1,280     $500/0
H     TH   32 3 / 3        1539    U     $1,255 $0    $0.82 $0.82                $1,255     $500/0
           277             1,456         $1,127       $0.77 $0.77
1Q 2013                                                  © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                CONCORDIA ON THE LAKE                                                            PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                             6155 S. Ammons Wy.                 Total Units                217
                                                                             Littleton,CO 80123                 APN:                   408077
                                                                             County:                 Jefferson Latitude:              39.60526
                                                                             Phone:            (303) 933-3449 Longitude:            -105.08965
                                                                             Classification:                 A Map Book:                342 W:
                                                                             Prop. Rank:             181.7385 Submarket:                   JEF
                                                                             Acres:                       6.01 Census Tract:            120.48
                                                                             Density:                    36.12 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                             Past Name: N/A                     RD NS/ EW:          5789/ 5546
                                                                                      CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                             Year Built:                 2001 Attached Garage:               0
                                                                             Style:                   Garden Detached Garage:              111
                                                                             Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                        0
                                                                             Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                          88
                                                                             Rental Bldgs                    3 Parking/Unit               0.92
                                                                             Stories                         3 Parking/Bed                0.59
                                                                             Rentable SF:             200950

              OWNER                           MANAGER                                    POLICIES                        LAST SALE
Johnson Lake Adult Community I     Grant Reservoir Company                    Leases                12 month Amount                             N/A
 (Grant Reservoir Company)          (Grant Reservoir Company)                 Applicant Fee              $0 Date
2922 Evergreen Pky.                2922 Evergreen Pky.                        Pets Allowed             None Price/unit
Suite 302                          Suite 302
Evergreen, CO 80439                Evergreen, CO 80439                        Pet Dep.                       Price/SF
(303) 761-9967                     (303) 761-9967                             Pet Charge/Mo              $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                        COMMUNITY AMENITIES                     UTILITIES
Air Cond         T1 Opt                 BBQ                                      Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt     W/D Hook-up            Beauty Salon                             Gas:         Master
Dishwasher       Walk-ins               Billiards                                Elect:       Master
Disposal         Washer/Dryer           Clubhouse                                Water:       Master
Fireplace                               Controlled Entry                         Util        System
Frst Free Ref                           Kitchen                                  Heat:         Boiler
Ice Maker                               Spa                                      Cool:        Chiller
Microwave                               Weight/Exer Rm                           Hot Wa:       Boiler
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                             Paid By
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                     Util      Own Res Fuel:
Storage Rm Some                                                                  Heat:       X        Gas
                                                                                 Cool:       X        Elect
              VACANCY                       AFFORDABLE STATUS                    Hot Water: X         Gas
Curr Qtr                          1% Gov't Subsidized:                        0% Stove:      X        Elect
Prev Qtr                          3% Rent Restricted:                         0% ElecOthr: X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                   2%                                             Water:      X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                    2%                                             Sewer:      X
                                                                                 Trash:      X
                                        UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                              COMMENTS
               Beds/     Net     Fur          Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths      SF      Unf   Low    High   $/SF Av. $/SF            Low Rent   /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A     Flat 15 1 / 1      648     U     $1,430 $0     $2.21 $2.21              $1,410     $1,000/0    INCOME: Rents increase $40 with detached
B     Flat 36 1 / 1      686     U     $1,450 $0     $2.11 $2.11              $1,420     $1,000/0    garage and $10-$30 with storage.
C     Flat 18 1 / 1      733     U     $1,520 $0     $2.07 $2.07              $1,590     $1,000/0    MISC: Age restricted. Phase II (22 units in
D     Flat 18 1 / 1      769     U     $1,540 $0     $2.00 $2.00              $1,520     $1,000/0    Models I-M) opened 3rd quarter 2008. Rents
                                                                                                     include light housekeeping. Has crown
E     Flat 12 1 / 1      875     U     $2,260 $0     $2.58 $2.58              $2,240     $1,000/0
                                                                                                     molding.
F     Flat 36 2 / 1      945     U     $1,970 $0     $2.08 $2.08              $1,950     $1,000/0
G     Flat 54 2 / 1      984     U     $1,920 $2,050 $1.95 $2.02              $1,900     $1,000/0
H     Flat 6   2/2       1219    U     $2,460 $3,100 $2.02 $2.28              $2,400     $1,000/0
I     Flat 2   2/2       1384    U     $3,440 $0     $2.49 $2.49              $3,400     $1,000/0
J     Flat 6   2/2       1415    U     $3,670 $0     $2.59 $2.59              $3,600     $1,000/0
K     Flat 6   2/2       1457    U     $4,100 $0     $2.81 $2.81              $3,990     $1,000/0
L     Flat 4   2 / 2.5   1615    U     $4,100 $0     $2.54 $2.54              $3,990     $1,000/0
M     TH   4   3/3       2017    U     $4,555 $0     $2.26 $2.26              $4,520     $1,000/0
           217           926           $1,997        $2.15 $2.18
1Q 2013                                                © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                                                                                                       PROPERTY INFORMATION
                 COURTYARDS-OLDE LITTLETON                                         2100 W. Berry Ave.                 Total Units                  97
                                                                                   Littleton,CO 80120                 APN:           2077-16-3-02-005
                                                                                   County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                39.61709
                                                                                   Phone:            (303) 798-6798 Longitude:             -105.01364
                                                                                   Classification:                 C Map Book:                 343 V:
                                                                                   Prop. Rank:              81.0362 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                                   Acres:                       1.64 Census Tract:              65.01
                                                                                   Density:                    59.07 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                                   Past Name: Courtyards of           RD NS/ EW:           5705/ 5138
                                                                                   Olde Little
                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                                   Year Built:                 1984 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                                   Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                   Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                        65
                                                                                   Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                           68
                                                                                   Rental Bldgs                    5 Parking/Unit                1.37
                                                                                   Stories                         3 Parking/Bed                    1
                                                                                   Rentable SF:               69450

               OWNER                                MANAGER                                    POLICIES                        LAST SALE
Hill Street Apartments                  Metrex Property Group LLC                   Leases                12 month Amount               $3,925,000
 (Sheiner Group)                         (Metrex Property Group LLC)                Applicant Fee              $30 Date                 01/01/1998
4119 Sherbrooke St. W.                  5031 S. Ulster St.                          Pets Allowed             None Price/unit               $40,464
Westmount, QB H3Z1A7                    Suite 220
(514) 876-4300                          Denver, CO 80237                            Pet Dep.                       Price/SF                 $56.52
                                        (720) 529-9855                              Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                          UTILITIES
Air Cond         T1 Opt                     BBQ                                        Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt     W/D Hook-up                Laundry Room                               Gas:          None
Dishwasher       Some                                                                  Elect:         Indiv
Disposal         Walk-ins Some                                                         Water:       Master
Fireplace Some                                                                         Util        System
Frst Free Ref                                                                          Heat:          Indiv
Microwave                                                                              Cool:          Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                         Hot Wa:        Indiv
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                                      Paid By
Stacked W/D Opt                                                                        Util      Own Res Fuel:
Storage Room                                                                           Heat:            X Elect
                                                                                       Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                           AFFORDABLE STATUS                      Hot Water:       X Elect
Curr Qtr                              3% Gov't Subsidized:                          0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                              3% Rent Restricted:                           0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                       3%                                               Water:      X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                        2%                                               Sewer:      X
                                                                                       Trash:      X
                                             UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                               COMMENTS
                       Beds/    Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                Prev Qtr     Sec Dep
Model     Type    No   Baths    SF    Unf   Low High $/SF      Av. $/SF           Low Rent     /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat    16   Studio   475   U     $625 $0     $1.32 $1.32               $625         $450/0      INCOME: Rents increase $25 with covered
B         Flat    45   1/1      640   U     $695 $0     $1.09 $1.09               $695         $450/0      parking.
C         Flat    10   2/2      900   U     $895 $0     $0.99 $0.99               $895         $550/0      UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
D         Flat    26   2/2      925   U     $895 $0     $0.97 $0.97               $895         $550/0
                  97            716         $758        $1.06 $1.06
1Q 2013                                                      © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                 1Q 2013
                         GALLUP HOUSE                                                                  PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                  5967 S. Gallup St.                   Total Units                 139
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                   APN:           2077-21-1-02-016
                                                                                  County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:               39.608519
                                                                                  Phone:             (303) 797-6287 Longitude:            -105.002382
                                                                                  Classification:                   C Map Book:                 344 S:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:               78.4543 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                        2.93 Census Tract:               66.04
                                                                                  Density:                     47.51 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: N/A                       RD NS/ EW:           5766/ 5078
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                            PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                  1970 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                      Mixed Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Construction:                Brick Covered:                        0
                                                                                  Roof Type:                 Built-up Open:                        208
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                      3 Parking/Unit                 1.5
                                                                                  Stories                      3 & 4 Parking/Bed                   1.2
                                                                                  Rentable SF:                87385

               OWNER                             MANAGER                                      POLICIES                           LAST SALE
Autrey Investment Corp.               Baron Property Services (Mgt)                Leases              3-13 month   Amount                $4,100,000
 (Autrey Investment Corp.)             (Baron Property Services (Mgt))             Applicant Fee              $35   Date                  09/01/1983
2055 S. Oneida St.                    8400 E. Prentice Ave.                        Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $29,496
Suite 180                             Suite 900
Denver, CO 80224                      Greenwd.Village, CO 80111                    Pet Dep.         $125R; $125N    Price/SF                  $46.92
(303) 399-8912                        (720) 488-2000                               Pet Charge/Mo              $20
          UNIT AMENITIES                       COMMUNITY AMENITIES                           UTILITIES
Air Cond                                  BBQ                                         Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                              Htd Swim Pool                               Gas:         Master
Dishwasher                                Laundry Room                                Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                                                              Water:       Master
Frst Free Ref                                                                         Util        System
Slf-Cln Oven Some                                                                     Heat:         Boiler
T1 Opt                                                                                Cool:          Indiv
                                                                                      Hot Wa:       Boiler
              VACANCY                         AFFORDABLE STATUS                                  Paid By
Curr Qtr                            5% Gov't Subsidized:                           0% Util      Own Res Fuel:
Prev Qtr                            3% Rent Restricted:                            0% Heat:            X Gas
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                     3%                                                Cool:            X Elect
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                      3%                                                Hot Water:       X Gas
                                                                                      Stove:           X Elect
                                                                                      ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                      Water:           X
                                                                                      Sewer:           X
                                                                                      Trash:           X
                                          UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
                     Beds/    Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths     SF    Unf   Low High $/SF      Av. $/SF             Low Rent    /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   2   Studio   470   U     $590 $0     $1.26 $1.26                 $580        $300/0       UTILITIES: Owner charges heating, water,
B         Flat   102 1 / 1    585   U     $683 $734 $1.17 $1.21                   $670        $350/0       sewer and trash costs back to residents.
C         Flat   35 2 / 1     765   U     $790 $827 $1.03 $1.06                   $780        $400/0       MISC: Has elevator.
                 139          629         $709        $1.13 $1.16
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                          MONTE VISTA                                                                  PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                   501 W. Mineral Ave.                Total Units                 219
                                                                                   Littleton,CO 80120                 APN:           2077-34-2-01-005
                                                                                   County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.5736
                                                                                   Phone:            (303) 738-2000 Longitude:              -104.9941
                                                                                   Classification:                 A Map Book:                 374 K:
                                                                                   Prop. Rank:             139.9506 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                                   Acres:                      15.10 Census Tract:              56.34
                                                                                   Density:                    14.50 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                                   Past Name: N/A                     RD NS/ EW:           6013/ 5034
                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                                   Year Built:                 1995 Attached Garage:              219
                                                                                   Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                   Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                         0
                                                                                   Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                          229
                                                                                   Rental Bldgs                  22 Parking/Unit                 2.05
                                                                                   Stories                         2 Parking/Bed                 1.35
                                                                                   Rentable SF:              194430

             OWNER                                MANAGER                                      POLICIES                           LAST SALE
RAR2-Monte Vista at Littleton          Greystar Real Estate Partners                Leases              6-13 month   Amount               $28,350,000
 (RREEF Funds)                         (Greystar Real Estate Partners )             Applicant Fee              $45   Date                  09/18/2006
875 N. Michigan Ave.                   1875 Lawrence St.                            Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit              $129,452
41st Floor                             Suite 650
Chicago, IL 60611                      Denver, CO 80202                             Pet Dep.         $200R; $200N    Price/SF                 $145.81
(312) 278-6416                         (303) 308-9000                               Pet Charge/Mo              $25
           UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                         UTILITIES
9' + Ceilings     Priv Bal/Patio          BBQ                                          Util          Meter
Air Cond          Priv Entry              Billiards                                    Gas:           Indiv
Attach Gar        Roman Tub               Clubhouse                                    Elect:         Indiv
Cable TV Opt      Storage Room            Computer Room                                Water:       Master
Ceiling Fans      T1 Opt                  Htd Swim Pool                                Util        System
Dishwasher        W/D Hook-up             Kitchen                                      Heat:          Indiv
Disposal          Walk-ins                Spa                                          Cool:          Indiv
Fireplace         Washer/Dryer            Weight/Exer Rm                               Hot Wa:        Indiv
Frst Free Ref                                                                                     Paid By
Ice Maker                                                                              Util      Own Res Fuel:
Microwave                                                                              Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                       Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                        AFFORDABLE STATUS                         Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                           6% Gov't Subsidized:                             0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                           5% Rent Restricted:                              0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    5%                                                  Water:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     4%                                                  Sewer:           X
                                                                                       Trash:           X
                                         UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                    COMMENTS
               Beds/      Net    Fur           Cur Gross Rents                     Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths       SF     Unf   Low    High    $/SF Av. $/SF                Low Rent   /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A     Flat 76 1 / 1       730    U     $1,124 $1,244 $1.54 $1.62                   $1,137     $125/150     UTILITIES: Owner charges water, sewer
B     Flat 30 1 / 1       815    U     $1,199 $1,237 $1.47 $1.49                   $1,231     $125/150     and trash costs back to residents.
C     Flat 30 2 / 1       905    U     $1,205 $1,334 $1.33 $1.40                   $1,272     $125/150     MISC: Model C is one bedroom with den. All
D     Flat 53 2 / 2       1000   U     $1,280 $1,397 $1.28 $1.34                   $1,365     $150/150     units have attached garages. Rent Pricing
                                                                                                           Program used.
E     Flat 30 2 / 2       1145   U     $1,802 $1,987 $1.57 $1.65                   $1,247     $150/150
           219            888          $1,276         $1.44 $1.50
1Q 2013                                                      © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                       PARKLAND SQUARE                                                                PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                  750 W. Belleview Ave.               Total Units                 102
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-15-2-01-060
                                                                                  County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:               39.623664
                                                                                  Phone:            (303) 552-7420 Longitude:            -104.997046
                                                                                  Classification:                  C Map Book:                 344 P:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:              78.4975 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                       2.70 Census Tract:               66.01
                                                                                  Density:                    37.78 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5655/ 5053
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                 1973 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Construction:          Frm&Stuc Covered:                          0
                                                                                  Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                        130
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                     1 Parking/Unit                1.27
                                                                                  Stories                          3 Parking/Bed                 1.25
                                                                                  Rentable SF:               53760

               OWNER                                MANAGER                                   POLICIES                           LAST SALE
Belleview Two Holdings LLC              Botnick Realty                             Leases                12 month   Amount                $5,200,000
 (Botnick Realty)                        (Botnick Realty)                          Applicant Fee              $25   Date                  02/06/2012
1653 Merriman Rd.                       1653 Merriman Rd.                          Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $50,980
Suite 204                               Suite 204
Akron, OH 44313                         Akron, OH 44313                            Pet Dep.                  $0R    Price/SF                  $97.96
(330) 867-4836                          (330) 867-4836                             Pet Charge/Mo              $20
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                         UTILITIES
Air Cond                                    Htd Swim Pool                             Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                                Laundry Room                              Gas:         Master
Ceiling Fans Some                                                                     Elect:         Indiv
Dishwasher                                                                            Water:       Master
Disposal                                                                              Util        System
Fireplace Some                                                                        Heat:         Boiler
Frst Free Ref                                                                         Cool:          Indiv
T1 Opt                                                                                Hot Wa:       Boiler
Walk-ins Some                                                                                   Paid By
                                                                                      Util      Own Res Fuel:
              VACANCY                           AFFORDABLE STATUS                     Heat:            X Gas
Curr Qtr                              2% Gov't Subsidized:                         0% Cool:            X Elect
Prev Qtr                              3% Rent Restricted:                          0% Hot Water: X         Gas
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                       2%                                              Stove:           X Elect
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                        3%                                              ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                      Water:           X
                                                                                      Sewer:           X
                                                                                      Trash:           X
                                            UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                COMMENTS
                       Beds/    Net   Fur         Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No    Baths    SF    Unf   Low High $/SF     Av. $/SF            Low Rent    /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   2     Studio   400   U     $540 $0    $1.35 $1.35                $520        $300/0      UTILITIES: AC units are wall. Owner
B         Flat   74    1/1      500   U     $635 $0    $1.27 $1.27                $615        $300/0      charges heating, water, sewer and trash
                                                                                                          costs back to residents.
C         Flat   16    1/1      565   U     $698 $0    $1.24 $1.24                $675        $300/0
D         Flat   8     1/1      640   U     $695 $0    $1.09 $1.09                $675        $300/0      MISC: Unit mix reconfigured 1st quarter
                                                                                                          2012. Shares leasing office with
E         Flat   2     2/1      900   U     $790 $0    $0.88 $0.88                $770        $300/0
                                                                                                          Windermere.
                 102            527         $651       $1.24 $1.24
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                                                                                                     PROPERTY INFORMATION
             PINNACLE AT MOUNTAIN GATE                                           7501 S. Utica Dr.                  Total Units                 496
                                                                                 Littleton,CO 80128                 APN:           2077-31-2-06-002
                                                                                 County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:              39.579439
                                                                                 Phone:            (303) 904-0100 Longitude:                -105.05
                                                                                 Classification:                 B Map Book:                  373 J:
                                                                                 Prop. Rank:             113.2446 Submarket:                    JEF
                                                                                 Acres:                      28.53 Census Tract:              56.22
                                                                                 Density:                    17.39 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                 Past Name: Polo                    RD NS/ EW:           5972/ 5333
                                                                                 Club/Mountain Gate
                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                                 Year Built:                 1999 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                                 Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:              125
                                                                                 Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                         0
                                                                                 Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                          610
                                                                                 Rental Bldgs                   23 Parking/Unit                1.48
                                                                                 Stories                     2 & 3 Parking/Bed                 0.86
                                                                                 Rentable SF:              470712

              OWNER                              MANAGER                                     POLICIES                      LAST SALE
Pinnacle at Mountain Gate LLC         BRE Properties, Inc.                        Leases              6-12 month Amount            $45,356,000
 (JP Morgan Fleming)                   (BRE Properties, Inc.)                     Applicant Fee             $50 Date                04/25/2006
2029 Century Park E.                  9633 S. 48th St.                            Pets Allowed             None Price/unit            $107,479
Suite 4150                            Suite 140
Los Angeles, CA 90067                 Phoenix, AZ 85044                           Pet Dep.                       Price/SF              $113.25
(310) 860-7021                        (602) 381-8181                              Pet Charge/Mo              $0
           UNIT AMENITIES                      COMMUNITY AMENITIES                          UTILITIES
9' + Ceilings     Priv Bal/Patio         BBQ                                         Util          Meter
Air Cond          Roman Tub              Clubhouse                                   Gas:           Indiv
Alarm Sys Opt     Slf-Cln Oven           Computer Room                               Elect:         Indiv
Cable TV Opt      Storage Rm Some        Htd Swim Pool                               Water:         Indiv
Ceiling Fans      T1 Opt                 Kitchen                                     Util        System
Some              W/D Hook-up            Sauna                                       Heat:          Indiv
Dishwasher        Walk-ins               Spa                                         Cool:          Indiv
Disposal          Wash/Dry Opt           Weight/Exer Rm                              Hot Wa:        Indiv
Fireplace Some                                                                                  Paid By
Frst Free Ref                                                                        Util      Own Res Fuel:
Ice Maker                                                                            Heat:            X Gas
Microwave                                                                            Cool:            X Elect
                                                                                     Hot Water:       X Gas
              VACANCY                      AFFORDABLE STATUS                         Stove:           X Elect
Curr Qtr                         4% Gov't Subsidized:                             0% ElecOthr:        X
Prev Qtr                         4% Rent Restricted:                              0% Water:           X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                  5%                                                  Sewer:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                   4%                                                  Trash:           X

                                        UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
               Beds/     Net    Fur           Cur Gross Rents                    Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths      SF     Unf   Low    High    $/SF Av. $/SF               Low Rent   /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: Model A $16 off each
                                                                                                         month; Model B $25 off each month; Model
A     Flat 92 1 / 1      707    U     $869   $1,355 $1.23 $1.57                  $869       $150/150
                                                                                                         E $163 off each month; Model F $187 off
B     Flat 72 1 / 1      796    U     $909   $1,170 $1.14 $1.31                  $909       $150/150     each month; and Model G $133 off each
C     Flat 60 2 / 1      916    U     $1,098 $0      $1.20 $1.20                 $1,064     $150/150     month with 12 month lease.
D     Flat 32 2 / 1      929    U     $1,155 $0      $1.24 $1.24                 $1,402     $150/150     INCOME: Rents increase $100 with
E     Flat 76 2 / 2      1022   U     $1,270 $1,698 $1.24 $1.45                  $1,270     $150/150     detached garage and $120 with under-unit
                                                                                                         detached, breezeway garage.
F     Flat 140 2 / 2     1093   U     $1,266 $1,389 $1.16 $1.21                  $1,266     $150/150
G     Flat 24 3 / 2      1374   U     $1,662 $2,159 $1.21 $1.39                  $1,662     $150/150     MISC: Models C-D are one bedrooms with
                                                                                                         den. Has crown molding. Last Sale
           496           949          $1,133         $1.19 $1.32
                                                                                                         represents the purchase of an 85% interest,
                                                                                                         with BRE Properties maintaining 15%
                                                                                                         interest.
1Q 2013                                                    © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                         RIVERSIDE                                                               PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                            4957 S. Prince Ct.                  Total Units                 248
                                                                            Littleton,CO 80123                  APN:           2077-08-4-11-005
                                                                            County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:              39.624955
                                                                            Phone:             (303) 730-8882 Longitude:           -105.019579
                                                                            Classification:                  B Map Book:                 343 R:
                                                                            Prop. Rank:              113.9647 Submarket:                    JEF
                                                                            Acres:                        8.22 Census Tract:              55.53
                                                                            Density:                     30.17 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                            Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5649/ 5170
                                                                                     CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                            Year Built:                  1986 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                            Style:                     Garden Detached Garage:               14
                                                                            Construction:           Frm&Side Covered:                        64
                                                                            Roof Type:            Comp Shngl Open:                          350
                                                                            Rental Bldgs                    21 Parking/Unit                1.73
                                                                            Stories                          3 Parking/Bed                 1.06
                                                                            Rentable SF:               198756

               OWNER                        MANAGER                                     POLICIES                           LAST SALE
CP III Riverside LLC             Carmel Partners Management                  Leases              2-12 month   Amount               $20,500,000
 (Carmel Partners, Inc.)          (Carmel Partners Management)               Applicant Fee              $50   Date                  09/30/2008
1000 Sansome St.                 950 S. Cherry St.                           Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $82,661
Suite 180                        Sutie 1100
San Francisco, CA 94111-1323     Denver, CO 80246                            Pet Dep.         $250R; $100N    Price/SF                 $103.14
(415) 273-2900                   (303) 759-5123                              Pet Charge/Mo              $30
          UNIT AMENITIES                    COMMUNITY AMENITIES                        UTILITIES
Air Cond         Vaulted Ceil Some    BBQ                                       Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt     W/D Hook-up          Computer Room                             Gas:           Indiv
Dishwasher       Walk-ins Some        Controlled Entry                          Elect:         Indiv
Disposal         Washer/Dryer         Htd Swim Pool                             Water:         Indiv
Fireplace                             Jogging Trl                               Util        System
Frst Free Ref                         Playground                                Heat:          Indiv
Microwave Some                        Sport Court                               Cool:          Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                        Weight/Exer Rm                            Hot Wa:        Indiv
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                               Paid By
Storage Room                                                                    Util      Own Res Fuel:
T1 Opt                                                                          Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                     AFFORDABLE STATUS                     Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                        2% Gov't Subsidized:                         0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                        2% Rent Restricted:                          0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                 3%                                              Water:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                  8%                                              Sewer:           X
                                                                                Trash:           X
                                      UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                COMMENTS
               Beds/    Net    Fur          Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths     SF     Unf   Low    High   $/SF Av. $/SF            Low Rent   /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A     Flat 44 1 / 1     590    U     $865   $0     $1.47 $1.47              $795       $250/125     INCOME: Rents increase $30 with covered
B     Loft 22 1 / 1     606    U     $900   $0     $1.49 $1.49              $805       $250/125     parking, $100 with detached garage, $30 for
                                                                                                    view, and $40 with hardwood floor. Seven
C     Flat 18 1 / 1     706    U     $950   $0     $1.35 $1.35              $865       $250/125
                                                                                                    units have Pergo-type flooring and/or new
D     Flat 28 1 / 1     726    U     $950   $0     $1.31 $1.31              $865       $250/125     cabinets, renting for up to $150 additional
E     Loft 22 2 / 1     744    U     $1,005 $0     $1.35 $1.35              $875       $300/125     rent.
F     Loft 12 2 / 1     875    U     $955   $0     $1.09 $1.09              $955       $300/125     MISC: Rent Pricing Program used. Models
G     Loft 20 2 / 1     894    U     $955   $0     $1.07 $1.07              $1,210     $300/125     E and G are one bedrooms with loft, Model
                                                                                                    F is one bedroom with den and Model J is
H     Flat 22 2 / 1.5   860    U     $1,125 $1,135 $1.31 $1.31              $1,210     $300/125
                                                                                                    two bedroom with loft. Former clubhouse is
I     Flat 40 2 / 2     990    U     $1,225 $1,245 $1.24 $1.25              $1,115     $300/125     used as leasing office.
J     Loft 20 3 / 2     1158   U     $1,285 $1,315 $1.11 $1.12              $1,250     $300/125
           248          801          $1,023        $1.28 $1.28
1Q 2013                                               © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                       SOUTH GLENN PLACE                                                               PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                   6541 S. Vine St.                    Total Units                 136
                                                                                   Littleton,CO 80121                  APN:           2077-23-4-07-057
                                                                                   County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                  39.5976
                                                                                   Phone:            (303) 798-7900 Longitude:               -104.9616
                                                                                   Classification:                  B Map Book:                 375 A:
                                                                                   Prop. Rank:                 92.92 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                                   Acres:                       3.12 Census Tract:               56.11
                                                                                   Density:                    43.60 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                   Past Name: Vine Street              RD NS/ EW:           5843/ 4860
                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                   Year Built:                 1970 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                   Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                   Construction:               Brick Covered:                        0
                                                                                   Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                        150
                                                                                   Rental Bldgs                     4 Parking/Unit                 1.1
                                                                                   Stories                          3 Parking/Bed                 1.04
                                                                                   Rentable SF:               65208

               OWNER                                MANAGER                                    POLICIES                           LAST SALE
South Urban Properties LLC             Triton Investment Co.                        Leases             12,18 month   Amount                $7,930,000
 (Triton Investment Co.)                (Triton Investment Co.)                     Applicant Fee              $35   Date                  09/18/2006
7901 E. Belleview Ave.                 7901 E. Belleview Ave.                       Pets Allowed              Cats   Price/unit               $58,309
24th Floor                             24th Floor
Englewood, CO 80111                    Englewood, CO 80111                          Pet Dep.                $150R    Price/SF                 $121.61
(303) 830-7848                         (303) 830-7848                               Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                        COMMUNITY AMENITIES                           UTILITIES
Air Cond                                   BBQ                                         Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                               Laundry Room                                Gas:           Indiv
Ceiling Fans                                                                           Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                                                               Water:       Master
Frst Free Ref                                                                          Util        System
Storage Room                                                                           Heat:          Indiv
T1 Opt                                                                                 Cool:          Indiv
                                                                                       Hot Wa:        Indiv
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS                                  Paid By
Curr Qtr                             2% Gov't Subsidized:                           0% Util      Own Res Fuel:
Prev Qtr                             3% Rent Restricted:                            0% Heat:            X Gas
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                      3%                                                Cool:            X Elect
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                       3%                                                Hot Water:       X Gas
                                                                                       Stove:           X Elect
                                                                                       ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                       Water:      X
                                                                                       Sewer:      X
                                                                                       Trash:      X
                                            UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                 COMMENTS
                       Beds/   Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr     Sec Dep
Model     Type   No    Baths   SF    Unf   Low High $/SF      Av. $/SF            Low Rent     /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   88    1/1     446   U     $695 $0     $1.56 $1.56                $685         $400/0      UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
B         Flat   40    1/1     509   U     $775 $0     $1.52 $1.52                $750         $400/0
C         Flat   8     2/1     700   U     $860 $0     $1.23 $1.23                $860         $400/0
                 136           479         $728        $1.52 $1.52
1Q 2013                                                      © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                 SOUTHVIEW PLACE TOWERS                                                              PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                 5820 S. Windermere St.              Total Units                 259
                                                                                 Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-16-4-22-015
                                                                                 County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:               39.610843
                                                                                 Phone:            (303) 795-2902 Longitude:            -105.006998
                                                                                 Classification:                  C Map Book:                 344 S:
                                                                                 Prop. Rank:              58.4884 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                 Acres:                       5.88 Census Tract:               66.04
                                                                                 Density:                    44.02 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                 Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5749/ 5103
                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                 Year Built:                 1972 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                 Style:                  Mid (Elv) Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                 Construction:          Conc&Brk Covered:                        200
                                                                                 Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                        200
                                                                                 Rental Bldgs                     2 Parking/Unit                1.54
                                                                                 Stories                          5 Parking/Bed                 1.18
                                                                                 Rentable SF:              194453

              OWNER                              MANAGER                                     POLICIES                        LAST SALE
Southview Place Towers LLC            Hudson Real Estate Co.                      Leases                12 month Amount              $19,500,000
 (Hudson Ideal Co.)                    (Hudson Real Estate Co.)                   Applicant Fee              $30 Date                 08/01/2003
1200 28th St.                         1200 28th St.                               Pets Allowed             None Price/unit               $75,290
Suite 100                             Suite 100
Boulder, CO 80303                     Boulder, CO 80303                           Pet Dep.                       Price/SF                $100.28
(303) 442-6380                        (303) 442-6380                              Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                          COMMUNITY AMENITIES                       UTILITIES
Air Cond                                  Billiards                                  Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                              Clubhouse                                  Gas:         Master
Dishwasher Some                           Controlled Entry                           Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                  Htd Swim Pool                              Water:       Master
Frst Free Ref                             Kitchen                                    Util        System
Priv Bal/Patio                            Laundry Room                               Heat:         Boiler
Slf-Cln Oven                              Sauna                                      Cool:          Indiv
Storage Room                              Weight/Exer Rm                             Hot Wa:       Boiler
                                                                                               Paid By
              VACANCY                         AFFORDABLE STATUS                      Util      Own Res Fuel:
Curr Qtr                            2% Gov't Subsidized:                          0% Heat:       X        Gas
Prev Qtr                            1% Rent Restricted:                           0% Cool:            X Elect
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                     1%                                               Hot Water: X         Gas
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                      0%                                               Stove:           X Elect
                                                                                     ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                     Water:      X
                                                                                     Sewer:      X
                                                                                     Trash:      X
                                          UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                COMMENTS
                     Beds/    Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths     SF    Unf   Low High $/SF      Av. $/SF            Low Rent    /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   4   Studio   296   U     $510 $0     $1.72 $1.72                $510        $250/0      INCOME: Rents increase $35 with covered
B         Flat   12 Studio    375   U     $510 $0     $1.36 $1.36                $510        $250/0      (community garage) parking.
C         Flat   9   Studio   425   U     $520 $0     $1.22 $1.22                $520        $250/0      UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
D         Flat   154 1 / 1    696   U     $730 $770 $1.05 $1.08                  $730        $250/0
                                                                                                         MISC: Age restricted.
E         Flat   60 2 / 2     966   U     $890 $910 $0.92 $0.93                  $890        $250/0
F         Flat   20 2 / 2     990   U     $890 $920 $0.90 $0.91                  $890        $250/0
                 259          751         $759        $1.01 $1.03
1Q 2013                                                    © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                         SYCAMORE HILL                                                                   PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                     5915 S. Sycamore St.               Total Units                  50
                                                                                     Littleton,CO 80120                 APN:           2077-21-2-31-001
                                                                                     County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:              39.608717
                                                                                     Phone:            (303) 794-3021 Longitude:           -105.015154
                                                                                     Classification:                 C Map Book:                 343 Z:
                                                                                     Prop. Rank:              83.4833 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                                     Acres:                       2.03 Census Tract:              65.02
                                                                                     Density:                    24.63 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                                     Past Name: N/A                     RD NS/ EW:           5764/ 5147
                                                                                              CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                                     Year Built:                 1985 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                                     Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                     Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                        46
                                                                                     Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                           15
                                                                                     Rental Bldgs                    3 Parking/Unit                1.22
                                                                                     Stories                         2 Parking/Bed                 0.85
                                                                                     Rentable SF:               36551

             OWNER                                    MANAGER                                    POLICIES                       LAST SALE
Sycamore Hills Venture                    Mountain Crest Properties                   Leases              6-12 month Amount                            N/A
(Rondell Homes)                            (Mountain Crest Properties)                Applicant Fee              $25 Date
1249A E. Imperial Hwy.                    733 N. Tejon St.                            Pets Allowed              Cats Price/unit
Suite A                                   Colorado Springs, CO 80903
Placentia, CA 92670                       (719) 444-0262                              Pet Dep.                  $0R Price/SF
(714) 996-9960                                                                        Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                            UTILITIES
Air Cond Some     Walk-ins Some             Htd Swim Pool                                Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                                Laundry Room                                 Gas:           Indiv
Dishwasher                                                                               Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                                                                 Water:       Master
Fireplace                                                                                Util        System
Frst Free Ref                                                                            Heat:          Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                           Cool:          Indiv
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                             Hot Wa:        Indiv
Storage Room                                                                                        Paid By
Vaulted Ceil Some                                                                        Util      Own Res Fuel:
W/D Hook-up                                                                              Heat:            X Gas
Some                                                                                     Cool:            X Elect
                                                                                         Hot Water:       X Gas
              VACANCY                           AFFORDABLE STATUS                        Stove:           X Elect
Curr Qtr                              4% Gov't Subsidized:                            4% ElecOthr:        X
Prev Qtr                              2% Rent Restricted:                             0% Water:      X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                       3%                                                 Sewer:      X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                        2%                                                 Trash:      X

                                            UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
                      Beds/   Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr     Sec Dep
Model     Type   No   Baths   SF    Unf   Low High $/SF      Av. $/SF             Low Rent     /NR Fee       CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   11   1/1     615   U     $720 $0     $1.17 $1.17                 $720         $250/150
B         Flat   4    1/1     663   U     $720 $0     $1.09 $1.09                 $720         $250/150
C         Flat   11   1/1     700   U     $740 $0     $1.06 $1.06                 $740         $250/150
D         Flat   2    1/1     730   U     $740 $0     $1.01 $1.01                 $740         $250/150
E         Flat   16   2/1     817   U     $840 $0     $1.03 $1.03                 $840         $250/150
F         Flat   6    2/2     817   U     $880 $0     $1.08 $1.08                 $880         $250/150
                 50           731         $783        $1.07 $1.07
1Q 2013                                                        © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                 1Q 2013
                  TERRA VISTA AT THE PARK                                                                PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                    5341 S. Federal Cir.                Total Units                 324
                                                                                    Littleton,CO 80123                  APN:           2077-17-2-16-007
                                                                                    County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:              39.620311
                                                                                    Phone:             (303) 795-5850 Longitude:           -105.027389
                                                                                    Classification:                  B Map Book:                 343 Q:
                                                                                    Prop. Rank:               96.7765 Submarket:                    JEF
                                                                                    Acres:                       12.19 Census Tract:               56.2
                                                                                    Density:                     26.58 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                    Past Name: Turf Club                RD NS/ EW:           5682/ 5212
                                                                                             CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                    Year Built:                  1984 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                                    Style:                     Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                    Construction:           Frm&Side Covered:                         0
                                                                                    Roof Type:            Comp Shngl Open:                          440
                                                                                    Rental Bldgs                   16 Parking/Unit                 1.36
                                                                                    Stories                          3 Parking/Bed                 0.92
                                                                                    Rentable SF:               256224

               OWNER                                  MANAGER                                   POLICIES                           LAST SALE
MFREVE-Terra Vista LLC                    Holland Residential                        Leases              2-12 month   Amount               $28,465,500
 (Mesirow Fin'l Inst. R.E.)                (Holland Residential)                     Applicant Fee              $45   Date                  04/01/2011
353 N. Clark St.                          600 S. Cherry St.                          Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $87,856
Chicago, IL 60654                         Suite 700
(312) 595-6938                            Denver, CO 80246                           Pet Dep.         $200R; $200N    Price/SF                  $111.1
                                          (720) 452-3800                             Pet Charge/Mo              $25
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                           UTILITIES
Air Cond         T1 Opt                     Clubhouse                                   Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt     Vaulted Ceil Some          Computer Room                               Gas:           Indiv
Ceiling Fans     Walk-ins Some              Htd Swim Pool                               Elect:         Indiv
Dishwasher       Washer/Dryer               Laundry Room                                Water:       Master
Disposal                                    Spa                                         Util        System
Fireplace                                   Weight/Exer Rm                              Heat:          Indiv
Frst Free Ref                                                                           Cool:          Indiv
Some                                                                                    Hot Wa:        Indiv
Microwave Some                                                                                     Paid By
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                          Util      Own Res Fuel:
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                            Heat:            X Gas
Some                                                                                    Cool:            X Elect
Storage Room                                                                            Hot Water:       X Gas
                                                                                        Stove:           X Elect
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS                        ElecOthr:        X
Curr Qtr                             5% Gov't Subsidized:                            0% Water:           X
Prev Qtr                             3% Rent Restricted:                             0% Sewer:           X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                      5%                                                 Trash:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                       7%
                                            UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
                     Beds/    Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr     Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths     SF    Unf    Low High $/SF     Av. $/SF            Low Rent     /NR Fee       CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   168 1 / 1    672   U      $780 $0    $1.16 $1.16                $780         $250/150      UTILITIES: AC units are wall. Owner
B         Flat   48 2 / 1     862   U      $910 $0    $1.06 $1.06                $915         $250/150      charges water, sewer and trash costs back
                                                                                                            to residents.
C         Flat   108 2 / 2    944   U      $990 $0    $1.05 $1.05                $1,010       $250/150
                 324          791          $869       $1.10 $1.10                                           MISC: Rent Pricing Program used. Each unit
                                                                                                            has either a stacked or side-by-side
                                                                                                            washer/dryer.
1Q 2013                                                       © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                            TIBURON                                                                PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                               700 W. Belleview Ave.              Total Units                  83
                                                                               Littleton,CO 80110                 APN:           2077-15-2-01-011
                                                                               County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:              39.624135
                                                                               Phone:            (303) 738-0407 Longitude:           -104.997529
                                                                               Classification:                 B Map Book:                 344 P:
                                                                               Prop. Rank:               95.948 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                               Acres:                       3.68 Census Tract:              66.01
                                                                               Density:                    22.57 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                               Past Name: N/A                     RD NS/ EW:           5655/ 5052
                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                               Year Built:                 1999 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                               Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                               Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                        39
                                                                               Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                           86
                                                                               Rental Bldgs                    8 Parking/Unit                1.51
                                                                               Stories                     2 & 3 Parking/Bed                 1.17
                                                                               Rentable SF:               64476

             OWNER                                MANAGER                                  POLICIES                      LAST SALE
Tiburon Associates                     SKM Management Company                   Leases              6-12 month Amount                             N/A
(SKM Management Company)                (SKM Management Company)                Applicant Fee             $35 Date
3773 Cherry Creek Dr. N                3773 Cherry Creek Dr. N                  Pets Allowed             None Price/unit
Suite 535                              Suite 535
Denver, CO 80209                       Denver, CO 80209                         Pet Dep.                       Price/SF
(303) 388-0907                         (303) 388-0907                           Pet Charge/Mo              $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                       COMMUNITY AMENITIES                        UTILITIES
Air Cond          W/D Hook-up            Clubhouse                                 Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt      Walk-ins Some          Controlled Entry                          Gas:           Indiv
Dishwasher        Washer/Dryer           Htd Swim Pool                             Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                 Kitchen                                   Water:       Master
Fireplace Some                           Laundry Room                              Util        System
Frst Free Ref                            Weight/Exer Rm                            Heat:          Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                     Cool:          Indiv
Roman Tub Some                                                                     Hot Wa:        Indiv
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                                  Paid By
T1 Opt                                                                             Util      Own Res Fuel:
Vaulted Ceil Some                                                                  Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                   Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS                   Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                             4% Gov't Subsidized:                       0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                             4% Rent Restricted:                        0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                      4%                                            Water:      X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                       7%                                            Sewer:      X
                                                                                   Trash:      X
                                         UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                               COMMENTS
                  Beds/   Net    Fur           Cur Gross Rents                   Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model     Type No Baths   SF     Unf   Low    High    $/SF Av. $/SF              Low Rent   /NR Fee    CONCESSIONS: $100 off 1st month.
A         Flat 4 1 / 1    644    U     $790   $830    $1.23 $1.26                $790       $250/0     INCOME: Model M is for clubhouse.
B         Flat 5 1 / 1    645    U     $790   $830    $1.22 $1.26                $790       $250/0
                                                                                                       MISC: Models J and L are one bedrooms
C         Flat 6 1 / 1    653    U     $790   $830    $1.21 $1.24                $790       $250/0     with den. Models B-C, E, G, I-J, L and N
D         Flat 6 1 / 1    668    U     $790   $830    $1.18 $1.21                $790       $250/0     have assigned covered parking.
E         Flat 5 1 / 1    686    U     $790   $830    $1.15 $1.18                $790       $250/0
F         Flat 16 1 / 1   690    U     $790   $830    $1.14 $1.17                $790       $250/0
G         Flat 5 1 / 1    703    U     $790   $830    $1.12 $1.15                $790       $250/0
H         Flat 12 1 / 1   719    U     $790   $830    $1.10 $1.13                $790       $250/0
I         Flat 5 2 / 2    858    U     $1,010 $1,270 $1.18 $1.33                 $1,010     $250/0
J         Flat 5 2 / 2    934    U     $1,010 $1,270 $1.08 $1.22                 $1,010     $250/0
K         TH   5 2/2      1004   U     $1,090 $1,270 $1.09 $1.18                 $1,090     $250/0
L         TH   5 2/2      1110   U     $1,090 $1,270 $0.98 $1.06                 $1,090     $250/0
M         Flat 1 2 / 2    1150
N         TH   3 2/2      1152   U     $1,100 $1,270 $0.95 $1.03                 $1,100     $250/0
               83         777          $854          $1.10 $1.16
1Q 2013                                                  © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                            WINDERMERE                                                                PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                  5519 S. Windermere                  Total Units                  76
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-16-3-01-017
                                                                                  County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:               39.616712
                                                                                  Phone:            (303) 552-7420 Longitude:            -105.007275
                                                                                  Classification:                  C Map Book:                 344 N:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:              55.9914 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                       1.50 Census Tract:               65.02
                                                                                  Density:                    50.77 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5708/ 5104
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                 1961 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                     Mixed Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Construction:               Brick Covered:                        0
                                                                                  Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                         60
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                     3 Parking/Unit                0.79
                                                                                  Stories                     2 & 4 Parking/Bed                  0.56
                                                                                  Rentable SF:               52140

               OWNER                                 MANAGER                                  POLICIES                           LAST SALE
Windermere Holdings LLC                  Botnick Realty                            Leases                12 month   Amount                             N/A
 (Botnick Realty)                         (Botnick Realty)                         Applicant Fee              $25   Date
1653 Merriman Rd.                        1653 Merriman Rd.                         Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit
Suite 204                                Suite 204
Akron, OH 44313                          Akron, OH 44313                           Pet Dep.                  $0R    Price/SF
(330) 867-4836                           (330) 867-4836                            Pet Charge/Mo              $20
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                         UTILITIES
Air Cond                                   Controlled Entry                           Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                               Laundry Room                               Gas:         Master
Dishwasher Some                                                                       Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                                                              Water:       Master
Frst Free Ref                                                                         Util        System
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                          Heat:         Boiler
Storage Rm Some                                                                       Cool:          Indiv
T1 Opt                                                                                Hot Wa:       Boiler
Walk-ins                                                                                         Paid By
                                                                                      Util      Own Res Fuel:
              VACANCY                         AFFORDABLE STATUS                       Heat:       X        Gas
Curr Qtr                            4% Gov't Subsidized:                           0% Cool:            X Elect
Prev Qtr                            5% Rent Restricted:                            0% Hot Water:       X Gas
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                     4%                                                Stove:           X Elect
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                      4%                                                ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                      Water:      X
                                                                                      Sewer:      X
                                                                                      Trash:      X
                                           UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                 COMMENTS
                    Beds/    Net   Fur           Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths    SF    Unf    Low   High $/SF    Av. $/SF            Low Rent    /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: Model A $50 off each
                                                                                                          month and Model B $70 off each month.
A         Flat   44 1 / 1    625   U      $745 $0     $1.19 $1.19                $745        $300/0
B         Flat   8 2/1       710   U      $795 $0     $1.12 $1.12                $795        $300/0       INCOME: Some units have 10'x10' storage,
                                                                                                          but other storage is available onsite for
C         Flat   24 2 / 1    790   U      $825 $0     $1.04 $1.04                $795        $300/0
                                                                                                          $10-$20 monthly.
                 76          686          $776        $1.13 $1.13
                                                                                                          UTILITIES: A/C units are wall.
                                                                                                          MISC: Added to Apartment Insights 1st
                                                                                                          quarter 2011. Shares leasing office with
                                                                                                          Parkland Square.
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                    1Q 2013
                        ALYSON COURT                                                                PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                               5807 S. Gallup St.                  Total Units                  60
                                                                               Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-16-4-21-045
                                                                               County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.6116
                                                                               Phone:             (303) 797-0155 Longitude:              -105.0024
                                                                               Classification:                     Map Book:                344 S:
                                                                               Prop. Rank:                      0 Submarket:                  DSC
                                                                               Acres:                        1.41 Census Tract:              66.04
                                                                               Density:                     42.55 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                               Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5744/ 5078
                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                               Year Built:                  1983 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                               Style:                     Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                               Construction:           Frm&Side Covered:                         0
                                                                               Roof Type:            Comp Shngl Open:                           50
                                                                               Rental Bldgs                     1 Parking/Unit                0.83
                                                                               Stories                          3 Parking/Bed                 0.83
                                                                               Rentable SF:                36000

              OWNER                             MANAGER                                    POLICIES                           LAST SALE
South Metro Housing Solutions       South Metro Housing Solutions               Leases                12 month   Amount                $3,680,000
 (South Metro Housing Solutions)     (South Metro Housing Solutions)            Applicant Fee              $0    Date                  07/25/2002
5745 S. Bannock St.                 5745 S. Bannock St.                         Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $61,333
Littleton, CO 80120                 Littleton, CO 80120
(303) 794-9608                      (303) 794-9608                              Pet Dep.                $300R    Price/SF                 $102.22
                                                                                Pet Charge/Mo              $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                      COMMUNITY AMENITIES            UTILITIES
Cable TV Opt                            Controlled Entry              Util          Meter
Disposal                                                              Gas:         Master
Frst Free Ref                                                         Elect:         Indiv
Storage Room                                                          Water:       Master
                                                                      Util        System
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS      Heat:         Boiler
Curr Qtr                           0%   Gov't Subsidized:        100% Cool:         None
Prev Qtr                           0%   Rent Restricted:          0% Hot Wa:        Boiler
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    0%                                            Paid By
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     0%                                 Util      Own Res Fuel:
                                                                      Heat:       X        Gas
                                                                      Cool:       X        None
                                                                      Hot Water:       X Gas
                                                                      Stove:           X Elect
                                                                      ElecOthr: X
                                                                      Water:      X
                                                                      Sewer:      X
                                                                      Trash:
                                     UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                    COMMENTS
                    Beds/   Net Fur        Cur Gross Rents                    Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths   SF Unf Low    High $/SF    Av. $/SF               Low Rent    /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   60 1 / 1   600 U   $845 $0     $1.41 $1.41                   $845        $845/0       INCOME: HUD Section 8 rents are 30% of
                 60         600     $845        $1.41 $1.41                                            adjusted gross income, and deposit is one
                                                                                                       month's rent. Market rents are unavailable.
                                                                                                       MISC: Age restricted. 100% Section 8.
1Q 2013                                                  © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                   1Q 2013
                          AMITY PLAZA                                                              PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                               200 W. Sterne Pkwy.                 Total Units                 180
                                                                               Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-27-2-11-016
                                                                               County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:               39.593665
                                                                               Phone:            (303) 795-0462 Longitude:            -104.992335
                                                                               Classification:                     Map Book:                374 B:
                                                                               Prop. Rank:                      0 Submarket:                  DSC
                                                                               Acres:                       4.10 Census Tract:               66.03
                                                                               Density:                    43.90 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                               Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5871/ 5024
                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                               Year Built:                 1978 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                               Style:                  Mid (Elv) Detached Garage:                0
                                                                               Construction:          Conc&Brk Covered:                          0
                                                                               Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                        145
                                                                               Rental Bldgs                     1 Parking/Unit                0.81
                                                                               Stories                          7 Parking/Bed                 0.81
                                                                               Rentable SF:              101700

              OWNER                             MANAGER                                    POLICIES                           LAST SALE
South Metro Housing Solutions       South Metro Housing Solutions               Leases                12 month   Amount                $6,455,000
 (South Metro Housing Solutions)     (South Metro Housing Solutions)            Applicant Fee              $0    Date                  08/12/2003
5745 S. Bannock St.                 5745 S. Bannock St.                         Pets Allowed             Dogs    Price/unit               $35,861
Littleton, CO 80120                 Littleton, CO 80120
(303) 794-9608                      (303) 794-9608                              Pet Dep.                  $0R    Price/SF                  $63.47
                                                                                Pet Charge/Mo              $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                      COMMUNITY AMENITIES            UTILITIES
Cable TV Opt                            Controlled Entry              Util          Meter
Frst Free Ref                           Laundry Room                  Gas:         Master
Priv Bal/Patio                                                        Elect:       Master
Storage Room                                                          Water:       Master
                                                                      Util        System
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS      Heat:         Boiler
Curr Qtr                           0%   Gov't Subsidized:        100% Cool:         None
Prev Qtr                           0%   Rent Restricted:          0% Hot Wa:        Boiler
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    0%                                           Paid By
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     0%                                 Util      Own Res Fuel:
                                                                      Heat:      X        Gas
                                                                      Cool:      X        None
                                                                      Hot Water: X        Gas
                                                                      Stove:     X        Elect
                                                                      ElecOthr: X
                                                                      Water:     X
                                                                      Sewer:     X
                                                                      Trash:
                                      UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                   COMMENTS
                     Beds/   Net Fur        Cur Gross Rents                   Prev Qtr     Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths    SF Unf Low High $/SF       Av. $/SF              Low Rent     /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   180 1 / 1   565 U   $746 $0     $1.32 $1.32                  $746         $746/0      INCOME: Market rents are shown. HUD
                 180         565     $746        $1.32 $1.32                                           Section 8 rents are 30% of adjusted gross
                                                                                                       income, and deposit is one month's rent.
                                                                                                       MISC: Age restricted. 100% Section 8.
1Q 2013                                                  © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                       BRADLEY HOUSE                                                               PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                               5844 S. Datura                      Total Units                  77
                                                                               Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-16-4-21-027
                                                                               County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.61026
                                                                               Phone:            (303) 794-9608 Longitude:              -105.00385
                                                                               Classification:                     Map Book:                344 S:
                                                                               Prop. Rank:                      0 Submarket:                  DSC
                                                                               Acres:                       1.80 Census Tract:               66.04
                                                                               Density:                    42.78 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                               Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5753/ 5086
                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                               Year Built:                 1975 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                               Style:                  Mid (Elv) Detached Garage:                0
                                                                               Construction:           Concrete Covered:                         0
                                                                               Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                         55
                                                                               Rental Bldgs                     1 Parking/Unit                0.71
                                                                               Stories                          6 Parking/Bed                 0.71
                                                                               Rentable SF:               40656

                 OWNER                          MANAGER                                    POLICIES                           LAST SALE
City of Littleton                   South Metro Housing Solutions               Leases                12 month   Amount                             N/A
 (South Metro Housing Solutions)     (South Metro Housing Solutions)            Applicant Fee              $0    Date
5745 S. Bannock St.                 5745 S. Bannock St.                         Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit
Littleton, CO 80120                 Littleton, CO 80120
(303) 794-9608                      (303) 794-9608                              Pet Dep.                $300R    Price/SF
                                                                                Pet Charge/Mo              $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                      COMMUNITY AMENITIES            UTILITIES
Air Cond                                BBQ                           Util          Meter
Disposal                                Clubhouse                     Gas:         Master
Frst Free Ref                           Computer Room                 Elect:         Indiv
Microwave                               Controlled Entry              Water:       Master
Priv Bal/Patio                          Kitchen                       Util        System
Slf-Cln Oven                            Laundry Room                  Heat:         Boiler
Walk-ins                                Theater                       Cool:          Indiv
                                                                      Hot Wa:       Boiler
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS                Paid By
Curr Qtr                           0%   Gov't Subsidized:        100% Util      Own Res Fuel:
Prev Qtr                           0%   Rent Restricted:          0% Heat:        X        Gas
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    0%                                 Cool:       X        Elect
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     0%                                 Hot Water: X         Gas
                                                                      Stove:      X        Elect
                                                                      ElecOthr: X
                                                                      Water:      X
                                                                      Sewer:      X
                                                                      Trash:      X
                                     UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                    COMMENTS
                    Beds/   Net Fur        Cur Gross Rents                    Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths   SF Unf Low    High $/SF    Av. $/SF               Low Rent    /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   77 1 / 1   528 U   $796 $0     $1.51 $1.51                   $796        $796/0       INCOME: Market rents are shown. HUD
                 77         528     $796        $1.51 $1.51                                            Public Housing rents are 30% of adjusted
                                                                                                       gross income, and deposit is one month's
                                                                                                       rent.
                                                                                                       UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
                                                                                                       MISC: HUD Public Housing. Age restricted.
                                                                                                       Property has three recreation rooms, two
                                                                                                       with kitchens. Manager phone extension is
                                                                                                       130.
1Q 2013                                                  © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                    1Q 2013
                            MAIN STREET                                                               PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                  2350 W. Main St.                    Total Units                  50
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-16-3-27-002
                                                                                  County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.61469
                                                                                  Phone:            (303) 347-1056 Longitude:              -105.01435
                                                                                  Classification:                     Map Book:                343 V:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:                      0 Submarket:                  DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                       0.00 Census Tract:               65.01
                                                                                  Density:                     0.00 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5722/ 5142
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                 1999 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                         35
                                                                                  Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                         42
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                     2 Parking/Unit                1.54
                                                                                  Stories                          3 Parking/Bed                 1.01
                                                                                  Rentable SF:               35132

               OWNER                                MANAGER                                   POLICIES                           LAST SALE
Littleton Main Street LP                 Terra Management Group LLC                Leases              6-12 month   Amount                             N/A
(Hendricks Communities)                   (Terra Management Group LLC)             Applicant Fee              $19   Date
7350 E. Progress Pl.                     7350 E. Progress Pl.                      Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit
Suite 208                                Suite 208
Greenwood Village, CO 80111              Greenwood Village, CO 80111               Pet Dep.         $200R; $200N    Price/SF
(303) 698-5600                           (303) 698-5600                            Pet Charge/Mo              $20
           UNIT AMENITIES                       COMMUNITY AMENITIES             UTILITIES
9' + Ceilings                              BBQ                           Util          Meter
Air Cond                                   Laundry Room                  Gas:           Indiv
Cable TV Opt                                                             Elect:         Indiv
Ceiling Fans Some                                                        Water:       Master
Dishwasher                                                               Util        System
Disposal                                                                 Heat:          Indiv
Frst Free Ref                                                            Cool:          Indiv
Slf-Cln Oven                                                             Hot Wa:        Indiv
Storage Room                                                                        Paid By
T1 Opt                                                                   Util      Own Res Fuel:
                                                                         Heat:            X Gas
              VACANCY                             AFFORDABLE STATUS      Cool:            X Elect
Curr Qtr                            2%     Gov't Subsidized:          0% Hot Water:       X Gas
Prev Qtr                            2%     Rent Restricted:         100% Stove:           X Elect
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                     2%                                   ElecOthr:        X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                      2%                                   Water:      X
                                                                         Sewer:      X
                                                                         Trash:      X
                                           UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                 COMMENTS
                    Beds/    Net   Fur           Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths    SF    Unf   Low High $/SF       Av. $/SF            Low Rent    /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: $20 off each month with
                                                                                                          12 month lease.
A         Flat   24 1 / 1    557   U     $615 $698 $1.10 $1.18                   $615        $300/0
B         Flat   4 2/1       744   U     $734 $831 $0.99 $1.05                   $734        $350/0       INCOME: Rents increase $20 with covered
                                                                                                          parking.
C         Flat   22 2 / 2    854   U     $734 $831 $0.86 $0.92                   $734        $350/0
                 50          703         $677         $0.96 $1.03                                         MISC: Rent Restricted (4 Model A and 4
                                                                                                          Model B at 40% of area median income and
                                                                                                          42 units at 50%).
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                    1Q 2013
                                                                                                       PROPERTY INFORMATION
                          POWER CIRCLE                                            183 Powers Cir.                      Total Units                  69
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                   APN:           2077-15-3-01-001
                                                                                  County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:               39.614857
                                                                                  Phone:             (720) 232-8845 Longitude:            -104.990017
                                                                                  Classification:                      Map Book:                344 T:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:                       0 Submarket:                  DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                        0.97 Census Tract:               66.01
                                                                                  Density:                     71.21 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: Stratford                 RD NS/ EW:           5721/ 5012
                                                                                  Commons
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                            PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                  1961 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                     Garden Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Construction:                Brick Covered:                        0
                                                                                  Roof Type:                 Built-up Open:                         25
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                      3 Parking/Unit                0.36
                                                                                  Stories                           3 Parking/Bed                 0.23
                                                                                  Rentable SF:                50570

              OWNER                                MANAGER                                    POLICIES                         LAST SALE
South Metro Housing Solutions          South Metro Housing Solutions               Leases                 12 month Amount               $3,500,000
 (South Metro Housing Solutions)        (South Metro Housing Solutions)            Applicant Fee               $0 Date                  10/16/2008
5745 S. Bannock St.                    5745 S. Bannock St.                         Pets Allowed              None Price/unit               $50,725
Littleton, CO 80120                    Littleton, CO 80120
(303) 794-9608                         (303) 794-9608                              Pet Dep.                        Price/SF                 $69.21
                                                                                   Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES            UTILITIES
Air Cond                                   Controlled Entry              Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                               Laundry Room                  Gas:         Master
Ceiling Fans Some                                                        Elect:         Indiv
Dishwasher                                                               Water:       Master
Disposal                                                                 Util        System
Frst Free Ref                                                            Heat:         Boiler
Storage Rm Some                                                          Cool:          Indiv
Walk-ins                                                                 Hot Wa:       Boiler
                                                                                   Paid By
              VACANCY                             AFFORDABLE STATUS      Util      Own Res Fuel:
Curr Qtr                             48%   Gov't Subsidized:          0% Heat:       X        Gas
Prev Qtr                             12%   Rent Restricted:         100% Cool:            X Elect
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                      26%                                 Hot Water: X         Gas
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                       10%                                 Stove:           X Elect
                                                                         ElecOthr:        X
                                                                         Water:      X
                                                                         Sewer:      X
                                                                         Trash:      X
                                            UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                COMMENTS
                      Beds/    Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                Prev Qtr     Sec Dep
Model     Type   No   Baths    SF    Unf   Low High $/SF      Av. $/SF           Low Rent     /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   15   Studio   475   U     $495 $0     $1.04 $1.04               $495         $495/0       UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
B         Flat   17   1/1      600   U     $595 $0     $0.99 $0.99               $595         $595/0
                                                                                                           MISC: Leasing halted due to major
C         Flat   35   2/1      895   U     $695 $0     $0.78 $0.78               $695         $695/0       renovation. Rent restricted (30% to 60% of
D         Flat   2    3/1      960   U     $775 $0     $0.81 $0.81               $775         $775/0       area median income). Changed from a
                                                                                                           conventionally-operated property 4th quarter
                 69            733         $629        $0.86 $0.86
                                                                                                           2011.
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                    1Q 2013
                   LITTLETON STATION




       EXHIBIT B
  LITTLETON AVAILABLE
OFFICE/COMMERCIAL SPACE




           23
                                                                       5/3/2013
This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                       Page 17
   1                                                        2606 W Alamo Ave - Bldg A




         Location: Bldg A                                                                            Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                               Status:          Built 1924, Renov 2000
                   Arapahoe County                                                                         Stories:          2
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                        RBA:           2,305 SF
                                                                                                      Typical Floor:         1,152 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Sunny Day Properties LLC                                                            Total Avail: 2,305 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                   % Leased: 0%
   Management:       -
Recorded Owner:      Sunny Day Properties LLC

       Expenses: 2011 Tax @ $1.38/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-13-006
          Parking: 6 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 3.76/1,000 SF


           Floor                 SF Avail         Floor Contig              Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
E BSMT                                   1,130                1,130                   1,130                       $18.22/mg      Vacant         3-5 yrs      Direct
Sunny Day Properties LLC / David Day (303) 795-1115
E 1st                                    1,175                1,175                   1,175                       $18.22/mg      Vacant         3-5 yrs      Direct
Sunny Day Properties LLC / David Day (303) 795-1115




                                                                                                                                                              5/3/2013
                                                      This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                               Page 1
   2                                                2305 W Berry Ave - Geneva Lodge




         Location: Geneva Lodge                                                                     Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                              Status:          Built 1926
                   Arapahoe County                                                                        Stories:          2
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                       RBA:           6,285 SF
                                                                                                     Typical Floor:         3,142 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide                                               Total Avail: 1,275 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                  % Leased: 79.7%
   Management:       -
Recorded Owner:      Littleton City Of

   Parcel Number: 2077-16-2-17-003


           Floor                 SF Avail           Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 2nd                                    1,275               1,275                1,275                            $15.00/fs    Vacant         1-5 yrs      Direct
Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide / Greg H. Knott (303) 321-5888 / Brad Gilpin (303) 321-5888 x225




                                                                                                                                                             5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                              Page 2
   3                                            1100 W Littleton Blvd - Littleton Office




         Location: Littleton Office                                                                  Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                              Status:          Built Jan 1960
                   Arapahoe County                                                                        Stories:          4
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                       RBA:           24,320 SF
                                                                                                     Typical Floor:         6,080 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide                                               Total Avail: 3,751 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                  % Leased: 89.0%
   Management:       Nova Shalom Ministries, Inc.
Recorded Owner:      Fernalld Steve

       Expenses: 2011 Tax @ $1.64/sf; 2011 Ops @ $3.76/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-16-4-29-001, 2077-16-4-29-002, 2077-16-4-29-003, 2077-16-4-29-004, 2077-16-4-29-005, 2077-16-4-29-006,
                   2077-16-4-29-007, 2077-16-4-29-008, 2077-16-4-29-009, 2077-16-4-29-010, 2077-16-4-29-011, 2077-16-4-29-012,
                   2077-16-4-29-013, 2077-16-4-29-014, 2077-16-4-29-015, 2077-16-4-29-016, 2077-16-4-29-017, 2077-16-4-29-018,
                   2077-16-4-29-019, 2077-16-4-29-020, 2077-16-4-29-021, 2077-16-4-29-022, 2077-16-4-29-023, 2077-16-4-29-024,
                   2077-16-4-29-025, 2077-16-4-29-026, 2077-16-4-29-027, 2077-16-4-29-028, 2077-16-4-29-029, 2077-16-4-29-030,
                   2077-16-4-29-031, 2077-16-4-29-032
          Parking: 53 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 2.40/1,000 SF


        Floor                SF Avail            Floor Contig         Bldg Contig            Price           Rent/SF/Yr + Svs       Occupancy       Term     Type
P 2nd / Suite 200                        673               673                   673          $75,000                 $11.59/fs    Vacant       1-5 yrs    Direct
Sales Company(Condo): Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide; Greg H. Knott, (303) 321-5888; Brad Gilpin, (303) 321-5888
Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide / Greg H. Knott (303) 321-5888 / Brad Gilpin (303) 321-5888 x225
P 3rd / Suite 330                       277                277                277        $25,000                      $15.16/fs    30 Days      1-5 yrs    Direct
Sales Company(Condo): Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide; Greg H. Knott, (303) 321-5888; Brad Gilpin, (303) 321-5888
Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide / Greg H. Knott (303) 321-5888 / Brad Gilpin (303) 321-5888 x225
P 3rd / Suite 360                       801                801                801             No                      $10.48/fs    30 Days      1-5 yrs    Direct
Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide / Greg H. Knott (303) 321-5888 / Brad Gilpin (303) 321-5888 x225




                                                                                                                                                           5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                            Page 3
   4                                                         1271-1299 W Littleton Blvd




          Location: Southwest Denver Cluster                                                         Building Type: Class C Office
                    Southwest Denver Submarket
                    Arapahoe County                                                                         Status:          Built 1968
                    Littleton, CO 80120                                                                    Stories:          1
                                                                                                              RBA:           9,600 SF
                                                                                                      Typical Floor:         4,800 SF
   Landlord Rep:       John Bartell                                                                      Total Avail: 2,700 SF
      Developer:       -                                                                                 % Leased: 71.9%
   Management:         -
Recorded Owner:        1299 Properties

       Expenses:       2010 Tax @ $1.61/sf
   Parcel Number:      2077-16-4-12-008
          Parking:     18 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 2.08/1,000 SF
       Amenities:      Corner Lot


           Floor                   SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 1st                                        1,000            1,000                   1,000                         $9.60/mg     Vacant         1-5 yrs      Direct
John Bartell / John Bartell (303) 716-3100 x109
P 1st                                  950 - 1,700            1,700                   1,700                       $11.00/mg      Vacant         1-5 yrs      Direct
John Bartell / John Bartell (303) 716-3100 x109




                                                                                                                                                              5/3/2013
                                                      This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                               Page 4
   5                                                                  1449 W Littleton Blvd




          Location: Southwest Denver Cluster                                                            Building Type: Class C Office
                    Southwest Denver Submarket
                    Arapahoe County                                                                            Status:          Built 1960
                    Littleton, CO 80120                                                                       Stories:          2
                                                                                                                 RBA:           8,910 SF
                                                                                                         Typical Floor:         4,455 SF
   Landlord Rep:      Follow Real Estate Inc.                                                               Total Avail: 1,565 SF
      Developer:      -                                                                                     % Leased: 82.4%
   Management:        -
Recorded Owner:       Ghaffari Ents LLC

       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.61/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-16-4-10-018
          Parking: 30 Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 4.26/1,000 SF


           Floor                   SF Avail          Floor Contig              Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy           Term      Type
P 1st / Suite 105                              400                 400                       400                       $12.75/fs    Vacant         Negotiable     Direct
Follow Real Estate Inc. / Shean Gaffari (303) 798-6800
P 2nd                                    225 - 925                 925                       925                    $11.00/nnn      Vacant         2-5 yrs        Direct
Follow Real Estate Inc. / Shean Gaffari (303) 798-6800
P 2nd / Suite 203                              240                 240                       240                    $11.00/nnn      Vacant         2 yrs          Direct
Follow Real Estate Inc. / Shean Gaffari (303) 798-6800




                                                                                                                                                                   5/3/2013
                                                         This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                    Page 5
   6                                          1950 W Littleton Blvd - Littleton Station




         Location: Littleton Station                                                                Building Type: Class B Office/Office/Residential
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                             Status:          Built May 2007
                   Arapahoe County                                                                       Stories:          3
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                      RBA:           11,523 SF
                                                                                                    Typical Floor:         11,523 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Consolidated Investment Group, LLC                                                  Total Avail: 4,386 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                   % Leased: 61.9%
   Management:       -
Recorded Owner:      Littleton Station LLC

   Parcel Number: 2077-16-3-14-007
          Parking: 40 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 3.00/1,000 SF



        Floor                SF Avail           Floor Contig         Bldg Contig            Price           Rent/SF/Yr + Svs       Occupancy       Term     Type
P 1st / Suite 103                      1,543             4,386                4,386                 No               Withheld     Vacant       3-5 yrs    Direct
Consolidated Investment Group, LLC / Adam L. Berger (303) 789-2664 x212
P 1st / Suite 105                      1,504             4,386                4,386                 No               Withheld     Vacant       3-5 yrs    Direct
Consolidated Investment Group, LLC / Adam L. Berger (303) 789-2664 x212
P 1st / Suite 107                      1,339             4,386                4,386                 No               Withheld     Vacant       3-5 yrs    Direct
Consolidated Investment Group, LLC / Adam L. Berger (303) 789-2664 x212




                                                                                                                                                          5/3/2013
                                                    This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                           Page 6
   7                                       2009 W Littleton Blvd - Court House Offices




         Location: Court House Offices                                                              Building Type: Class B Office
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                              Status:          Built 1960, Renov 2011
                   Arapahoe County                                                                        Stories:          3
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                       RBA:           7,606 SF
                                                                                                     Typical Floor:         2,550 SF
   Landlord Rep:    BRC Real Estate                                                                     Total Avail: 3,243 SF
      Developer:    Littleton Capital Partners LLC                                                      % Leased: 100%
   Management:      LCP Management
Recorded Owner:     Lcp 2009 Llc

 Sales Company: BRC Real Estate: Carole Schumacher (303) 541-1575
       Expenses: 2012 Est Tax @ $2.07/sf; 2012 Est Ops @ $4.79/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-16-3-07-005
          Parking: 23 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 3.00/1,000 SF


          Floor                 SF Avail         Floor Contig              Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 2nd / Suite 200                       1,704                1,704                   1,704                $16.00-$18.00/fs      30 Days        3-5 yrs      Direct
BRC Real Estate / Carole Schumacher (303) 541-1575
P 2nd / Suite 210                         841                  841                       841              $16.00-$18.00/fs      30 Days        3-5 yrs      Direct
BRC Real Estate / Carole Schumacher (303) 541-1575
P 3rd / Suite 310                         698                  698                       698              $18.00-$20.00/fs      30 Days        3-5 yrs      Direct
BRC Real Estate / Carole Schumacher (303) 541-1575




                                                                                                                                                             5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                              Page 7
   8                                              2329 W Main St - Little Town Office




         Location: Little Town Office                                                              Building Type: Class B Office
                   NWC Sycamore St & Main St
                   Southwest Denver Cluster                                                               Status:          Built 1985
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                            Stories:          3
                   Arapahoe County                                                                          RBA:           39,994 SF
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                              Typical Floor:         13,331 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Arapahoe Property Management                                                      Total Avail: 6,950 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased: 88.6%
   Management:       Arapahoe Property Management
Recorded Owner:      John D. & Chaplin Scism

       Expenses:     2010 Tax @ $2.19/sf
   Parcel Number:    2077-16-3-05-021
          Parking:   23 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 2.86/1,000 SF
       Amenities:    Corner Lot


           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 2nd / Suite 201                        2,400              2,400                   2,400                         $18.00/fs    30 Days        1-5 yrs      Direct
Arapahoe Property Management / Jeff Keith (303) 797-6766
P 2nd / Suite 212                          150                150                       150                       Withheld     Vacant         1-3 yrs      Direct
Arapahoe Property Management / Jeff Keith (303) 797-6766
P 3rd / Suite 300                        4,400              4,400                   4,400                         $18.00/fs    Vacant         3-5 yrs      Direct
Arapahoe Property Management / Jeff Keith (303) 797-6766




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                    This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                             Page 8
   9                                                                        2516 W Main St




          Location: Southwest Denver Cluster                                                          Building Type: Class B Office/Medical
                    Southwest Denver Submarket
                    Arapahoe County                                                                          Status:          Built 1932
                    Littleton, CO 80120                                                                     Stories:          1
                                                                                                               RBA:           5,700 SF
                                                                                                       Typical Floor:         5,700 SF
   Landlord Rep:      Littleton Holistic Medicine                                                         Total Avail: 5,700 SF
      Developer:      -                                                                                   % Leased: 0%
   Management:        -
Recorded Owner:       Ancient Art Llc

       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.74/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-07-008

           Floor                   SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
E 1st                                  300 - 5,700             5,700                   5,700                      $25.00/nnn      Vacant         1-5 yrs      Direct
Littleton Holistic Medicine / Ruth Graham (720) 935-1340




                                                                                                                                                               5/3/2013
                                                       This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                Page 9
  10                                                               2560-2590 W Main St




         Location: AKA 2570 W Main St                                                               Building Type: Class B Office
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                              Status:          Built 1901
                   Arapahoe County                                                                        Stories:          2
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                       RBA:           11,000 SF
                                                                                                     Typical Floor:         5,500 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Pinnacle Real Estate Advisors, LLC                                                 Total Avail: 1,450 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                  % Leased: 86.8%
   Management:       Che Bella Properties Inc
Recorded Owner:      Che Bella Properties Inc

       Expenses:     2010 Tax @ $0.79/sf, 2013 Est Tax @ $2.50/sf; 2013 Est Ops @ $2.50/sf
   Parcel Number:    2077-17-4-07-001, 2077-17-4-07-014
          Parking:   22 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 2.00/1,000 SF
       Amenities:    Corner Lot


           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 2nd / Suite 2560                         1,450              1,450               1,450                         $24.00/nnn      Vacant         3-5 yrs      Direct
Pinnacle Real Estate Advisors, LLC / Eric Shaw (303) 962-9551 / Brandon Gouker (303) 962-9572




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                            Page 10
  11                                                                    5602 S Nevada St




         Location: Southwest Denver Cluster                                                          Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Submarket
                   Arapahoe County                                                                          Status:          Built 1942
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                     Stories:          -
                                                                                                              RBA:           3,718 SF
                                                                                                      Typical Floor:         3,718 SF
   Landlord Rep:     O.P. Inc. Commercial Real Estate                                                    Total Avail: 3,718 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                   % Leased: 100%
   Management:       -
Recorded Owner:      Nevada Street Office Suites

       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $3.83/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-05-001

           Floor                  SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term       Type
E 1st                                664 - 3,718              3,718                   3,718                      $20.00/nnn      08/2013        Negotiable   Direct
O.P. Inc. Commercial Real Estate / Kevin Sherrod (303) 210-4714




                                                                                                                                                             5/3/2013
                                                      This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                             Page 11
  12                                                                5564-5574 Prince St




         Location: Southwest Denver Cluster                                                        Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Submarket
                   Arapahoe County                                                                        Status:          Built 1980
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                   Stories:          2
                                                                                                            RBA:           7,352 SF
                                                                                                    Typical Floor:         3,824 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Thomas L. Alcorn & Associates                                                     Total Avail: 712 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased: 90.3%
   Management:       Thomas L. Alcorn & Associates
Recorded Owner:      Alcorn Thomas L & Lois A Trust

       Expenses: 2011 Tax @ $2.21/sf, 2012 Est Tax @ $2.31/sf; 2011 Ops @ $1.05/sf, 2012 Est Ops @ $1.80/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-16-3-04-006, 2077-16-3-04-007
          Parking: 50 free Surface Spaces are available


           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term       Type
P 2nd / Suite 9                            712                712                       712              $16.00-$17.00/fs      Vacant         Negotiable   Direct
Thomas L. Alcorn & Associates / Thomas L. Alcorn (303) 797-1554




                                                                                                                                                           5/3/2013
                                                    This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                           Page 12
  13                                                   5994 S Prince St - Sycamore Hill




          Location: Sycamore Hill                                                                     Building Type: Class C Office
                    Southwest Denver Cluster
                    Southwest Denver Submarket                                                               Status:          Built 1985
                    Arapahoe County                                                                         Stories:          2
                    Littleton, CO 80120                                                                        RBA:           6,420 SF
                                                                                                       Typical Floor:         3,210 SF
   Landlord Rep:      Pinnacle Real Estate Advisors, LLC                                                  Total Avail: 783 SF
      Developer:      -                                                                                   % Leased: 87.8%
   Management:        -
Recorded Owner:       Case Family Investments, LLC

       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $2.05/sf; 2010 Ops @ $4.98/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-21-2-31-005

           Floor                  SF Avail           Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 2nd / Suite 200                            783                 783                       783              $14.00-$16.00/fs      Vacant         1-3 yrs      Direct
Pinnacle Real Estate Advisors, LLC / Gregory A. Titus (303) 962-9555




                                                                                                                                                              5/3/2013
                                                       This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                              Page 13
  14                                                                      5767 S Rapp St




         Location: Southwest Denver Cluster                                                         Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Submarket
                   Arapahoe County                                                                         Status:          Built 1916
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                    Stories:          1
                                                                                                             RBA:           1,768 SF
                                                                                                     Typical Floor:         1,768 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Cherry Creek Properties LLC                                                        Total Avail: 1,768 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                  % Leased: 100%
   Management:       -
Recorded Owner:      Keenaco Llc

       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $0.92/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-00-041

           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term          Type
E 1st                                     1,768              1,768                   1,768                      $22.40/nnn      30 Days        Thru Jul 2017   Sublet
Newmark Grubb Knight Frank / Frank Griffin (303) 260-4345




                                                                                                                                                               5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                               Page 14
  15                                        5808 S Rapp St - Little Creek Office Building




         Location: Little Creek Office Building                                                    Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                             Status:          Built 1983
                   Arapahoe County                                                                       Stories:          2
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                      RBA:           30,678 SF
                                                                                                    Typical Floor:         15,339 SF
   Landlord Rep:     John Propp Commercial Group                                                       Total Avail: 7,919 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased: 74.2%
   Management:       -
Recorded Owner:      Kristin L Alexander

       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.70/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-18-021, 2077-22-1-10-023
          Parking: 10 Covered Spaces are available; Ratio of 4.00/1,000 SF


           Floor                 SF Avail         Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 1st / Suite 113                         150                150                 150                   $15.00/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107
P 1st / Suite 116                         150                150                 150                   $15.00/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107
P 2nd / Suite 205                       1,285              1,285               1,285                   $12.50/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107
P 2nd / Suite 211                         520                520                 520                   $12.50/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107
P 2nd / Suite 225                         630                630                 630                   $12.50/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107
P 2nd / Suite 230                       1,062              1,062               1,062                   $12.50/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107
P 2nd / Suite 250                       1,573              1,573               1,573                   $12.50/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107


                                                                                                                                                           5/3/2013
                                                    This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                           Page 15
  15                             5808 S Rapp St - Little Creek Office Building(cont'd)
           Floor                 SF Avail         Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs         Occupancy         Term      Type
P 2nd / Suite 270                       2,549              2,549               2,549                   $12.50/fs           Vacant        2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107




                                                                                                                                                      5/3/2013
                                                    This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                      Page 16
                  LITTLETON STATION




     EXHIBIT C
LITTLETON AVAILABLE
   RETAIL SPACE




         24
                                                                       5/3/2013
This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                       Page 18
   1                                         2610 W Belleview Ave - Riverside Downs




         Location:   Southwest Ret Cluster                                                         Building Type:           Retail/(Neighborhood Center)
                     Southwest Ret Submarket                                                         Bldg Status:           Built 2008
                     Arapahoe County                                                                Building Size:          9,918 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80123                                                       Typical Floor Size:          9,918 SF
                                                                                                          Stories:          1
                                                                                                       Land Area:           1.07 AC
   Landlord Rep:     David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc.                                             Total Avail:          1,800 SF
      Developer:     Littleton Capital Partners LLC                                                    % Leased:            81.9%
   Management:       LCP Management                                                           Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Hillside Farms, LP                                                          Smallest Space:            1,800 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           1800
        Expenses: 2011 Tax @ $2.95/sf; 2011 Ops @ $2.95/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-1-06-005

        Amenities: Drive Thru, Pylon Sign, Signage
  Street Frontage: 89 feet on Belleview(with 3 curb cuts)
          Parking: Free Surface Spaces; Ratio of 5.00/1,000 SF

           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term       Type
P 1st                                     1,800              1,800                   1,800                      $25.00/nnn      Vacant         Negotiable   Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303




                                                                                                                                                             5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                              Page 1
   2                                2630 W Belleview Ave - Bldg E - Riverside Downs




         Location:   Bldg E                                                                        Building Type: Retail/Storefront Retail/Office (Neighborhood
                     SEC Belleview Ave & Prince St                                                                 Center)
                     Southwest Ret Cluster                                                           Bldg Status: Built Jan 2008
                     Southwest Ret Submarket
                                                                                                    Building Size: 19,079 SF
                     Arapahoe County                                                           Typical Floor Size: 9,553 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80123                                                                  Stories: 2
                                                                                                       Land Area: 1.97 AC
   Landlord Rep:     David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc.
      Developer:     Littleton Capital Partners LLC                                                   Total Avail:          1,100 SF
   Management:       LCP Management                                                                    % Leased:            100%
Recorded Owner:      Hillside Farms, LP                                                       Total Spaces Avail:           1
        Expenses: 2011 Tax @ $4.14/sf; 2011 Ops @ $4.14/sf                                       Smallest Space:            1,100 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           -
  Parcel Number: 2077-17-1-06-005


          Parking: Free Surface Spaces; Ratio of 5.00/1,000 SF
           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs             Occupancy        Term       Type
P GRND                                    1,100              1,100                   1,100                      $25.00/nnn      30 Days       Negotiable   Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                             Page 2
   3                                         2650 W Belleview Ave - Riverside Downs




         Location:   Southwest Ret Cluster                                                         Building Type:           Retail/Freestanding (Neighborhood Center)
                     Southwest Ret Submarket                                                         Bldg Status:           Built 2007
                     Arapahoe County                                                                Building Size:          48,832 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80123                                                       Typical Floor Size:          48,832 SF
                                                                                                          Stories:          1
                                                                                                       Land Area:           4.13 AC
   Landlord Rep:     David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc.                                             Total Avail:          18,000 SF
      Developer:     Littleton Capital Partners LLC                                                    % Leased:            100%
   Management:       LCP Management                                                           Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Hillside Farms, LP                                                          Smallest Space:            3,000 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           -
        Expenses: 2011 Tax @ $1.57/sf; 2011 Ops @ $1.57/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-1-06-005

        Amenities: Drive Thru, Pylon Sign, Signage
  Street Frontage: 226 feet on Prince St
                   131 feet on Centennial Dr

          Parking: Free Surface Spaces; Ratio of 5.00/1,000 SF

           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term        Type
P 1st                            3,000 - 18,000             18,000                  18,000                      $18.00/nnn      30 Days        Negotiable    Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Scott Hagan (303) 694-6082 x327




                                                                                                                                                              5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                               Page 3
   4                                       2897 W Belleview Ave - Centennial Square




        Location:   Southwest Ret Cluster                                                      Building Type:           Retail/(Neighborhood Center)
                    Southwest Ret Submarket                                                      Bldg Status:           Built 1980
                    Arapahoe County                                                             Building Size:          6,396 SF
                    Littleton, CO 80123                                                    Typical Floor Size:          6,396 SF
                                                                                                      Stories:          1
                                                                                                   Land Area:           0.57 AC
   Landlord Rep:    CBRE                                                                          Total Avail:          1,077 SF
      Developer:    -                                                                              % Leased:            100%
   Management:      -                                                                     Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:     Centennial Milner Llc                                                    Smallest Space:            1,077 SF
                                                                                                 Bldg Vacant:           -
       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $2.95/sf; 2010 Ops @ $2.07/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-08-4-08-001
           CAM: $5.30

       Amenities: Pylon Sign, Signage
 Street Frontage: 216 feet on Belleview Ave(with 2 curb cuts)
          Parking: 55 free Surface Spaces are available

          Floor                 SF Avail        Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term       Type
P 1st / Suite 2897D                     1,077            1,077                   1,077                      $18.00/nnn      30 Days        Negotiable   Direct
CBRE / Matthew Debartolomeis (720) 528-6324




                                                                                                                                                         5/3/2013
                                                 This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                          Page 4
   5                                                                     5794 S Datura St




         Location:    South Ret Cluster                                                             Building Type:           Retail/Freestanding
                      South Ret Submarket                                                             Bldg Status:           Built 1966
                      Arapahoe County                                                                Building Size:          17,912 SF
                      Littleton, CO 80120                                                       Typical Floor Size:          17,912 SF
                                                                                                           Stories:          1
                                                                                                        Land Area:           1.88 AC
   Landlord Rep:      Bitzer Real Estate Partners                                                      Total Avail:          17,912 SF
      Developer:      -                                                                                 % Leased:            100%
   Management:        -                                                                        Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:       Mitchell Roger T Jr & Patricia                                              Smallest Space:            17,912 SF
                                                                                                      Bldg Vacant:           -
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $2.21/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-16-4-21-003
 Sales Company: Bitzer Real Estate Partners: Brady Welsh (720) 264-3486

        Amenities: Pylon Sign
  Street Frontage: 169 feet on Datura St(with 0 curb cut)
          Parking: 130 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 7.26/1,000 SF

           Floor                  SF Avail           Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy           Term       Type
E 1st                                     17,912             17,912                  17,912                         Withheld     Negotiable        Negotiable   Direct
Bitzer Real Estate Partners / Brady Welsh (720) 264-3486




                                                                                                                                                                 5/3/2013
                                                      This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                  Page 5
   6                                        5151 S Federal Blvd - Columbine Square




        Location:   Southwest Ret Cluster                                                        Building Type:           Retail/Restaurant (Community Center)
                    Southwest Ret Submarket                                                        Bldg Status:           Built 1976
                    Arapahoe County                                                               Building Size:          8,175 SF
                    Littleton, CO 80123                                                      Typical Floor Size:          8,175 SF
                                                                                                        Stories:          1
                                                                                                     Land Area:           0.97 AC
   Landlord Rep:    Dunton Commercial Real Estate Co.                                               Total Avail:          8,175 SF
      Developer:    -                                                                                % Leased:            0%
   Management:      -                                                                       Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:     Cmcb Enterprise Inc                                                        Smallest Space:            8,175 SF
                                                                                                   Bldg Vacant:           8175
       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.11/sf; 2010 Ops @ $1.83/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-2-15-017


          Parking: -
          Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs             Occupancy        Term            Type
E 1st                                    8,175             8,175                   8,175                         Withheld     Vacant        Negotiable     Direct
Dunton Commercial Real Estate Co. / Charles Nusbaum (303) 758-3131




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                   This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                             Page 6
   7                                           5302 S Federal Cir - Centennial Plaza




        Location:   Centennial Plaza                                                             Building Type:           Retail/(Strip Center)
                    Southwest Ret Cluster                                                          Bldg Status:           Built 1984
                    Southwest Ret Submarket                                                       Building Size:          18,013 SF
                    Arapahoe County                                                          Typical Floor Size:          18,013 SF
                    Littleton, CO 80123                                                                 Stories:          1
                                                                                                     Land Area:           1.60 AC
   Landlord Rep:    Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide                                            Total Avail:          2,958 SF
      Developer:    -                                                                                % Leased:            83.6%
   Management:      -                                                                       Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:     Csip Inc                                                                   Smallest Space:            2,958 SF
                                                                                                   Bldg Vacant:           2958
       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $3.47/sf; 2002 Est Ops @ $2.42/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-2-17-001
           CAM: $6.50

       Amenities: Corner Lot

          Parking: 67 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 3.59/1,000 SF

          Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy              Term      Type
P 1st                                   2,958              2,958                   2,958                      $12.00/nnn       Vacant             1-5 yrs      Direct
Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide / Gannon Roth (720) 881-6334




                                                                                                                                                                5/3/2013
                                                   This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                 Page 7
   8                                          1210-1228 W Littleton Blvd - Woodlawn Plaza




         Location:    AKA 1210-1290 W Littleton Blvd                                                Building Type:           Retail/(Strip Center)
                      South Ret Cluster                                                               Bldg Status:           Built 1955
                      South Ret Submarket                                                            Building Size:          17,191 SF
                      Arapahoe County                                                           Typical Floor Size:          17,191 SF
                      Littleton, CO 80120                                                                  Stories:          1
                                                                                                        Land Area:           28 AC
   Landlord Rep:      Metro Brokers, Inc.                                                               Total Avail:         3,900 SF
      Developer:      -                                                                                  % Leased:           77.3%
   Management:        -                                                                         Total Spaces Avail:          2
Recorded Owner:       LSMFT, LLC                                                                   Smallest Space:           900 SF
                                                                                                       Bldg Vacant:          3900
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $0.07/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-16-4-30-001

        Amenities: Pylon Sign
  Street Frontage: 139 feet on West Littleton Blvd(with 1 curb cut)
           Parking: 60 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 2.00/1,000 SF

           Floor                   SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy              Term      Type
P 1st / Suite 1222                             900              900                       900                     $11.67/mg       Vacant             2-3 yrs      Direct
Metro Brokers, Inc. / John Bagnall (303) 779-7979
P 1st / Suite 1228                   1,000 - 3,000            3,000                   3,000                       $10.00/mg       Vacant             2-3 yrs      Direct
Metro Brokers, Inc. / John Bagnall (303) 779-7979




                                                                                                                                                                   5/3/2013
                                                      This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                    Page 8
   9                                            1360 W Littleton Blvd - Littleton Plaza




         Location:   South Ret Cluster                                                             Building Type:           Retail/Freestanding (Strip Center)
                     South Ret Submarket                                                             Bldg Status:           Built 1995
                     Arapahoe County                                                                Building Size:          10,210 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                       Typical Floor Size:          10,210 SF
                                                                                                          Stories:          1
                                                                                                       Land Area:           1.52 AC
   Landlord Rep:     Dunton Commercial Real Estate Co.                                                Total Avail:          2,168 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased:            78.8%
   Management:       -                                                                        Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Michael Haile Gebre & Tsehaye                                               Smallest Space:            2,168 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           2168
        Expenses: 2012 Tax @ $1.82/sf; 2012 Ops @ $3.85/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-16-4-21-044
           CAM: $5.67


  Street Frontage: 285 feet on Littleton Blvd(with 0 curb cut)
          Parking: 75 free Surface Spaces are available

           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term           Type
P 1st                                     2,168              2,168                   2,168               $8.00-$10.00/nnn       Vacant          Negotiable       Direct
Dunton Commercial Real Estate Co. / Chris Vincent (720) 382-7312




                                                                                                                                                                  5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 9
  10           1500 W Littleton Blvd - Woodlawn Center - Woodlawn Shopping Center




         Location:   Woodlawn Center                                                               Building Type:           Retail/Freestanding (Neighborhood Center)
                     South Ret Cluster                                                               Bldg Status:           Built 1956, Renov 2009
                     South Ret Submarket                                                            Building Size:          92,654 SF
                     Arapahoe County                                                           Typical Floor Size:          92,654 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                                  Stories:          2
                                                                                                       Land Area:           6.14 AC
   Landlord Rep:     David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc.                                             Total Avail:          21,793 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased:            87.3%
   Management:       LCP Management                                                           Total Spaces Avail:           6
Recorded Owner:      LCP 1500 LLC                                                                Smallest Space:            1,050 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           11793
      Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.93/sf, 2011 Est Tax @ $1.98/sf; 2010 Ops
                 @ $2.54/sf, 2011 Est Ops @ $2.32/sf
  Parcel Number: 2077-16-4-22-014

Anchor Tenant(s): Family Dollar Stores Of Colorado, Inc
       Amenities: Corner Lot, Signage, Signalized Intersection
  Street Frontage: 333 feet on W Littleton Blvd
                   219 feet on S Datura St
                   623 feet on S Windermere St


          Parking: 460 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 5.00/1,000 SF

           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term       Type
P LL / Suite 140                         10,000             10,000                  10,000                        $8.00/nnn     30 Days        1-5 yrs       Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303
P 1st / Suite 104                         2,000              2,000                   2,000                      $15.00/nnn      Vacant         3-10 yrs      Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303
P 1st / Suite 113                         1,050              1,050                   1,050                      $15.00/nnn      Vacant         3-10 yrs      Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303


                                                                                                                                                              5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                              Page 10
  10 1500 W Littleton Blvd - Woodlawn Center - Woodlawn Shopping Center(con
           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs            Occupancy         Term      Type
P 1st / Suite 126-127                        4,000           4,000                   4,000                      $15.00/nnn     Vacant        1-5 yrs      Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303
P 2nd / Suite 207                    1,500 - 3,012           3,012                   3,012                        $9.00/nnn    Vacant        1-5 yrs      Direct
Littleton Capital Partners LLC / Mark Best (303) 797-9119
P 2nd / Suite 208                            1,731           1,731                   1,731                         $10.00/fs   Vacant        1-5 yrs      Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303




                                                                                                                                                          5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                          Page 11
  11                                        2569-2575 W Main St - Batschelet Building




         Location:   Batschelet Building                                                           Building Type:           Retail/Storefront Retail/Office
                     AKA 5660 S Curtice St                                                           Bldg Status:           Built 1908, Renov 2007
                     South Ret Cluster                                                              Building Size:          10,780 SF
                     South Ret Submarket                                                       Typical Floor Size:          5,390 SF
                     Arapahoe County                                                                      Stories:          2
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                               Land Area:           0.34 AC
   Landlord Rep:     DePaul Real Estate Investment Group, Inc.                                        Total Avail:          4,645 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased:            56.9%
   Management:       -                                                                        Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Main Street Partners 1 Llc                                                  Smallest Space:            4,645 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           4645
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $2.73/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-04-020


  Street Frontage: 77 feet on Main St(with 0 curb cut)
          Parking: 30 free Surface Spaces are available
           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy          Term       Type
P 1st / Suite 2575                         4,645             4,645                   4,645                      $28.00/nnn       Vacant          Negotiable   Direct
DePaul Real Estate Investment Group, Inc. / Matthew Watson (303) 333-9799




                                                                                                                                                              5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                              Page 12
  12                                              2670 W Main St - Main Street Station




         Location:   Main Street Station                                                           Building Type:           Retail
                     South Ret Cluster                                                               Bldg Status:           Built 1925, Renov Feb 2013
                     South Ret Submarket                                                            Building Size:          4,535 SF
                     Arapahoe County                                                           Typical Floor Size:          4,535 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                                  Stories:          1
                                                                                                       Land Area:           0.15 AC
   Landlord Rep:     Cassidy Turley Colorado                                                          Total Avail:          4,535 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased:            0%
   Management:       -                                                                        Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Main Street Station LLC                                                     Smallest Space:            4,535 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           4535
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.56/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-08-010
  Loading Docks: -                                                                                  Ceiling Height: 12'
 Sales Company: Cassidy Turley Colorado: David Fried (303) 292-3700, Robert Hudgins (303) 575-1547

          Parking:    Ratio of 1.20/1,000 SF

           Floor                  SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term      Type
E 1st                                      4,535              4,535               9,172                            Withheld     Vacant         Negotiable   New
Cassidy Turley Colorado / David Fried (303) 292-3700 / Robert Hudgins (303) 575-1547




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                            Page 13
  13                                              2680 W Main St - Main Street Station




         Location:   Main Street Station                                                           Building Type:           Retail
                     South Ret Cluster                                                               Bldg Status:           Built 1929, Renov Feb 2013
                     South Ret Submarket                                                            Building Size:          4,637 SF
                     Arapahoe County                                                           Typical Floor Size:          4,637 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                                  Stories:          1
                                                                                                       Land Area:           0.15 AC
   Landlord Rep:     Cassidy Turley Colorado                                                          Total Avail:          4,637 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased:            0%
   Management:       -                                                                        Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Main Street Station LLC                                                     Smallest Space:            4,637 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           4637
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $2.58/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-08-011
 Sales Company: Cassidy Turley Colorado: David Fried (303) 292-3700, Robert Hudgins (303) 575-1547

  Street Frontage: 82 feet on Main St(with 1 curb cut)
          Parking: 12 free Surface Spaces are available

           Floor                  SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term      Type
E 1st                                      4,637              4,637               9,172                            Withheld     Vacant         Negotiable   New
Cassidy Turley Colorado / David Fried (303) 292-3700 / Robert Hudgins (303) 575-1547




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                            Page 14
  14                                                                   5654 S Prince St




         Location:   South Ret Cluster                                                            Building Type:           Retail/Storefront Retail/Residential
                     South Ret Submarket                                                            Bldg Status:           Built 1985
                     Arapahoe County                                                               Building Size:          45,147 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                      Typical Floor Size:          12,826 SF
                                                                                                         Stories:          4
                                                                                                      Land Area:           0.65 AC
   Landlord Rep:     Arapahoe Property Management                                                    Total Avail:          1,725 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                % Leased:            96.2%
   Management:       -                                                                       Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Chaplin Bonnie                                                             Smallest Space:            1,725 SF
                                                                                                    Bldg Vacant:           1725
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $0.42/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-16-3-05-020


  Street Frontage: 183 feet on Prince St(with 0 curb cut)
          Parking: 30 free Surface Spaces are available; 26 Covered Spaces are available
           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy          Term            Type
P 1st / Suite d                          1,725              1,725                   1,725                       $22.00/mg      Vacant          3-5 yrs            Direct
Arapahoe Property Management / Jeff Keith (303) 797-6766




                                                                                                                                                                  5/3/2013
                                                    This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                  Page 15
  15                                                            5599 S Rio Grande St




        Location:   South Ret Cluster                                                            Building Type:           Retail/Auto Repair
                    South Ret Submarket                                                            Bldg Status:           Built 1958
                    Arapahoe County                                                               Building Size:          3,500 SF
                    Littleton, CO 80120                                                      Typical Floor Size:          3,500 SF
                                                                                                        Stories:          1
                                                                                                     Land Area:           0.20 AC
   Landlord Rep:    Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide                                            Total Avail:          3,500 SF
      Developer:    -                                                                                % Leased:            0%
   Management:      -                                                                       Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:     Eban Bell                                                                  Smallest Space:            3,500 SF
                                                                                                   Bldg Vacant:           3500
       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.68/sf; 2010 Ops @ $1.01/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-16-3-02-010
  Loading Docks: None                                                                             Ceiling Height: 12'


 Street Frontage: 63 feet on S Rio Grande
                  94 feet on Powers Ave

          Parking: 12 free Surface Spaces are available

          Floor                 SF Avail         Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy           Term      Type
E 1st                                    3,500             3,500                   3,500                      $12.00/nnn      Vacant           1-5 yrs      Direct
Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide / Aaron Romero (303) 321-5888




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                   This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                            Page 16
  16                                        5350 S Santa Fe Dr - Shops At Riverbend




         Location:   Shops At Riverbend                                                              Building Type:           Retail/(Strip Center)
                     AKA 5350 S Santa Fe Dr                                                            Bldg Status:           Built 2002
                     South Ret Cluster                                                                Building Size:          16,069 SF
                     South Ret Submarket                                                         Typical Floor Size:          16,069 SF
                     Arapahoe County                                                                        Stories:          1
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                                 Land Area:           3 AC
   Landlord Rep:     Legend Retail Group                                                                Total Avail:          3,739 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                   % Leased:            88.0%
   Management:       -                                                                          Total Spaces Avail:           2
Recorded Owner:      JC Riverbend LLC & DG Riverbend LLC                                           Smallest Space:            1,809 SF
                                                                                                       Bldg Vacant:           1930
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $6.17/sf; 2010 Ops @ $6.60/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-1-36-001

        Amenities: Food Court, Restaurant, Signage, Signalized Intersection, Tenant Controlled HVAC

          Parking: Free Surface Spaces; Ratio of 3.11/1,000 SF
           Floor                 SF Avail         Floor Contig               Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy             Term       Type
P 1st                                    1,930                 1,930                   1,930              $23.00-$25.00/nnn        Vacant             Negotiable   Direct
Legend Retail Group / Max A. Jacobson (720) 529-2986
P 1st                                    1,809                 1,809                   1,809              $23.00-$25.00/nnn        30 Days            Negotiable   Direct
Legend Retail Group / Max A. Jacobson (720) 529-2986




                                                                                                                                                                   5/3/2013
                                                       This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 17
              LITTLETON STATION




 EXHIBIT D
 LITTLETON
DEMOGRAPHIC
  REPORT




     25
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

      2013     Estimated Population                                          43,091
      2018     Projected Population                                          45,649
      2010     Census Population                                             41,715
      2000     Census Population                                             40,701

      Growth 2010-2013                                                       3.30%
      Growth 2013-2018                                                       5.94%

      2013 Estimated Median Age                                                42.28
      2013 Estimated Average Age                                               41.35

      2013     Estimated Households                                          19,026
      2018     Projected Households                                          20,317
      2010     Census Households                                             18,300
      2000     Census Households                                             17,368

      Growth 2010-2013                                                       3.97%
      Growth 2013-2018                                                       6.78%

      2013 Est. Average Household Size                                           2.23

      2013 Est. Median Household Income                                    $54,989
      2018 Prj. Median Household Income                                    $56,192
      2000 Cen. Median Household Income                                    $51,227

      2013 Est. Average Household Income                                   $80,561
      2013 Estimated Per Capita Income                                     $35,571

      2013 Estimated Housing Units                                           20,218
      2013 Estimated Occupied Units                                          19,026
      2013 Estimated Vacant Units                                              1,191

      2013 Est. Owner Occupied Units                                         11,770
      2013 Est. Renter Occupied Units                                          7,257

      2013 Est. Median Housing Value                                     $256,957
      2013 Est. Average Housing Value                                    $321,000




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 1 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    2013 Estimated Households                                               19,026
     - Income Less than $15,000                                                2,253 (11.8%)
     - Income $15,000 - $24,999                                                1,968 (10.3%)
     - Income $25,000 - $34,999                                                2,065 (10.9%)
     - Income $35,000 - $49,999                                                2,497 (13.1%)
     - Income $50,000 - $74,999                                                3,239 (17.0%)
     - Income $75,000 - $99,999                                                2,379 (12.5%)
     - Income $100,000 - $124,999                                              1,517 (8.0%)
     - Income $125,000 - $149,999                                              1,122 (5.9%)
     - Income $150,000 - $199,999                                                 796 (4.2%)
     - Income $200,000 - $249,999                                                 397 (2.1%)
     - Income $250,000 - $499,999                                                 602 (3.2%)
     - Income Over $500,000                                                       192 (1.0%)

      2013 Est. Average Household Income                                   $80,561
      2018 Prj. Average Household Income                                   $83,163
      2000 Cen. Avg. Household Income                                      $68,869

    2013 Estimated Households                                               19,026
     - 1 Person Household                                                      6,684 (35.1%)
     - 2 Person Household                                                      6,397 (33.6%)
     - 3 Person Household                                                      2,689 (14.1%)
     - 4 Person Household                                                      2,022 (10.6%)
     - 5 Person Household                                                         809 (4.3%)
     - 6 Person Household                                                         274 (1.4%)
     - 7 or More Person Household                                                 151 (.8%)

      2013 Est. Average Household Size                                           2.23

    2013 Estimated Households by                                            19,026
    Number of Vehicles
     - Households with No Vehicles                                             1,324 (7.0%)
     - Households with 1 Vehicle                                               7,222 (38.0%)
     - Households with 2 Vehicles                                              6,758 (35.5%)
     - Households with 3 Vehicles                                              2,772 (14.6%)
     - Households with 4 Vehicles                                                 697 (3.7%)
     - Households with 5+ Vehicles                                                254 (1.3%)

      2013 Est. Average Number of                                                1.76
      Vehicles




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 2 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    2013 Estimated Population by                                            43,091
    Race and Origin
     - White Population                                                      38,185 (88.6%)
     - Black Population                                                           607 (1.4%)
     - Asian Population                                                           955 (2.2%)
     - Pacific Islander Population                                                  29 (.1%)
     - American Indian and Alaska Native                                          340 (.8%)
     - Other Race Population                                                   1,752 (4.1%)
     - Two or More Races Population                                            1,221 (2.8%)
     - Hispanic Population                                                     5,662 (13.1%)
     - White Non-Hispanic Population                                         34,909 (81.0%)

    2013 Estimated Population by Age                                        43,091
     - Aged 0 to 4 Years                                                       2,436 (5.7%)
     - Aged 5 to 9 Years                                                       2,511 (5.8%)
     - Aged 10 to 14 Years                                                     2,498 (5.8%)
     - Aged 15 to 17 Years                                                     1,671 (3.9%)
     - Aged 18 to 20 Years                                                     1,305 (3.0%)
     - Aged 21 to 24 Years                                                     2,182 (5.1%)
     - Aged 25 to 34 Years                                                     5,207 (12.1%)
     - Aged 35 to 44 Years                                                     5,253 (12.2%)
     - Aged 45 to 54 Years                                                     6,579 (15.3%)
     - Aged 55 to 64 Years                                                     6,090 (14.1%)
     - Aged 65 to 74 Years                                                     3,757 (8.7%)
     - Aged 75 to 84 Years                                                     2,382 (5.5%)
     - Aged 85 Years and Older                                                 1,222 (2.8%)

      2013 Estimated Median Age                                                42.28
      2013 Estimated Average Age                                               41.35

    2013 Estimated Population Over                                          30,489
    25 by Educational Attainment
     - Less than 9th Grade                                                        956 (3.1%)
     - High School - No Diploma                                                   924 (3.0%)
     - High School Diploma                                                     5,710 (18.7%)
     - Some College                                                            7,333 (24.1%)
     - Associate Degree                                                        2,289 (7.5%)
     - Bachelor's Degree                                                       8,719 (28.6%)
     - Master's Degree                                                         3,534 (11.6%)
     - Professional Degree                                                        740 (2.4%)
     - Doctoral Degree                                                            284 (.9%)




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 3 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    2013 Estimated Owner Occupied                                           11,770
    Units by Housing Value
     - Valued Less than $20,000                                                   151 (1.3%)
     - Valued $20,000 - $39,999                                                   291 (2.5%)
     - Valued $40,000 - $59,999                                                     83 (.7%)
     - Valued $60,000 - $79,999                                                     74 (.6%)
     - Valued $80,000 - $99,999                                                   179 (1.5%)
     - Valued $100,000 - $149,999                                                 723 (6.1%)
     - Valued $150,000 - $199,999                                              1,847 (15.7%)
     - Valued $200,000 - $299,999                                              4,211 (35.8%)
     - Valued $300,000 - $399,999                                              1,856 (15.8%)
     - Valued $400,000 - $499,999                                                 898 (7.6%)
     - Valued $500,000 - $749,999                                                 903 (7.7%)
     - Valued $750,000 - $999,999                                                 204 (1.7%)
     - Valued More than $1,000,000                                                349 (3.0%)

      2013 Est. Median Housing Value                                     $256,957
      2013 Est. Average Housing Value                                    $321,000

    2013 Estimated Housing Units by                                         20,218
    Housing Type
     - 1 Unit Detached                                                       10,668 (52.8%)
     - 1 Unit Attached                                                         1,876 (9.3%)
     - 2 Units                                                                    253 (1.3%)
     - 3-4 Units                                                                  522 (2.6%)
     - 5-19 Units                                                              3,349 (16.6%)
     - 20-49 Units                                                             2,060 (10.2%)
     - 50+ Units                                                               1,106 (5.5%)
     - Mobile Home Units                                                          362 (1.8%)
     - Other Units                                                                  20 (.1%)

    2013 Estimated Housing Units by                                         20,218
    Year Structure Built
     - Structure Built 2005 or Later                                              509 (2.5%)
     - Structure Built 2000 to 2004                                            1,631 (8.1%)
     - Structure Built 1990 to 1999                                            3,288 (16.3%)
     - Structure Built 1980 to 1989                                            3,987 (19.7%)
     - Structure Built 1970 to 1979                                            3,699 (18.3%)
     - Structure Built 1960 to 1969                                            2,982 (14.7%)
     - Structure Built 1950 to 1959                                            3,318 (16.4%)
     - Structure Built 1940 to 1949                                               306 (1.5%)
     - Structure Built 1939 or Earlier                                            499 (2.5%)

      2013 Est. Median Year Structure Built                                     1978




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 4 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    2013 Estimated Population by Sex                                        43,091
     - Male                                                                  20,839 (48.4%)
     - Female                                                                22,252 (51.6%)

    2013 Estimated Pop. over 15 by                                          35,647
    Marital Status
     - Male: Never Married                                                     5,066 (14.2%)
     - Male: Married Spouse Absent                                                431 (1.2%)
     - Male: Married Spouse Present                                            9,107 (25.5%)
     - Male: Widowed                                                              413 (1.2%)
     - Male: Divorced                                                          1,997 (5.6%)
     - Female: Never Married                                                   4,323 (12.1%)
     - Female: Married Spouse Absent                                              740 (2.1%)
     - Female: Married Spouse Present                                          8,901 (25.0%)
     - Female: Widowed                                                         2,007 (5.6%)
     - Female: Divorced                                                        2,662 (7.5%)

    2013 Estimated Population in                                                 374
    Group Quarters
     - Institutional Group Quarters                                               329 (88.0%)
     - Non-Institutional Group Quarters                                             45 (12.0%)

    2013 Estimated Occupied Housing                                         19,026
    Units by Year Occ. Moved In
     - Moved In 2005 or Later                                                  9,008 (47.3%)
     - Moved In 2000-2004                                                      3,348 (17.6%)
     - Moved In 1990-1999                                                      3,769 (19.8%)
     - Moved In 1980-1989                                                      1,434 (7.5%)
     - Moved In 1970-1979                                                         800 (4.2%)
     - Moved In 1969 or Earlier                                                   668 (3.5%)




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 5 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    2013 Estimated Employed                                                 21,714
    Population by Occupation
     - Architect/Engineer                                                         718 (3.3%)
     - Arts/Entertain/Sports                                                      615 (2.8%)
     - Building Grounds Maint                                                     647 (3.0%)
     - Business/Financial Ops                                                  1,660 (7.6%)
     - Community/Soc Svcs                                                         302 (1.4%)
     - Computer/Mathematical                                                   1,010 (4.7%)
     - Construction/Extraction                                                    620 (2.9%)
     - Edu/Training/Library                                                    1,333 (6.1%)
     - Farm/Fish/Forestry                                                           38 (.2%)
     - Food Prep/Serving                                                       1,551 (7.1%)
     - Health Practitioner/Tec                                                 1,351 (6.2%)
     - Healthcare Support                                                         414 (1.9%)
     - Legal                                                                      208 (1.0%)
     - Life/Phys/Soc Science                                                      154 (.7%)
     - Maintenance Repair                                                         630 (2.9%)
     - Management                                                              2,135 (9.8%)
     - Office/Admin Support                                                    3,114 (14.3%)
     - Personal Care/Svc                                                          723 (3.3%)
     - Production                                                                 586 (2.7%)
     - Protective Svcs                                                            473 (2.2%)
     - Sales/Related                                                           2,526 (11.6%)
     - Transportation/Moving                                                      907 (4.2%)

    2013 Estimated Employed                                                 21,268
    Population Over 16 by Primary
    Transportation to Work
     - Bicycle                                                                    211 (1.0%)
     - Carpooled                                                               1,440 (6.8%)
     - Drove Alone                                                           16,528 (77.7%)
     - Other                                                                      153 (.7%)
     - Public Transport                                                        1,235 (5.8%)
     - Walked                                                                     391 (1.8%)
     - Worked at Home                                                          1,311 (6.2%)

    2013 Estimated Employed                                                 21,334
    Population Over 16 by Travel Time
    to Work
     - Travel Time Less than 15 Min                                            5,032 (23.6%)
     - Travel Time 15-29 Min                                                   7,111 (33.3%)
     - Travel Time 30-44 Min                                                   5,455 (25.6%)
     - Travel Time 45-59 Min                                                   1,502 (7.0%)
     - Travel Time 60+ Min                                                        924 (4.3%)
     - 2013 Est. Average Travel Time                                                27




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 6 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    Estimated Population Over 16                                            35,089
    Years Old by Employment Status
     - Civilian Males                                                        11,093 (31.6%)
     - Civilian Females                                                      10,153 (28.9%)
     - Armed Forces Male                                                            10 (.0%)
     - Armed Forces Female                                                            0
     - Unemployed Males                                                        1,189 (3.4%)
     - Unemployed Females                                                         767 (2.2%)
     - Not in the Labor Force Male                                             4,445 (12.7%)
     - Not in the Labor Force Female                                           7,432 (21.2%)

    2013 Estimated Employed                                                 21,714
    Population by Industry Employed
    In
     - Accommdtn/Food Svcs                                                     1,737 (8.0%)
     - Admin/Spprt/Waste Mgmt                                                     802 (3.7%)
     - Agriculture/Forest/Fish/Hunt/Mine                                          198 (.9%)
     - Construction                                                            1,050 (4.8%)
     - Educational Svcs                                                        1,933 (8.9%)
     - Entertainment/Rec                                                          831 (3.8%)
     - Fin/Insur/RE/Rent/Lse                                                   1,756 (8.1%)
     - Health Care/Soc Asst                                                    2,694 (12.4%)
     - Information                                                             1,122 (5.2%)
     - Mgmt of Companies                                                            32 (.1%)
     - Oth Svcs                                                                1,045 (4.8%)
     - Prof/Sci/Tech/Admin                                                     2,272 (10.5%)
     - Public Administration                                                      850 (3.9%)
     - Retail Trade                                                            2,755 (12.7%)
     - Total Manufacturing                                                     1,338 (6.2%)
     - Transport/Warehse/Utils                                                    592 (2.7%)
     - Wholesale Trade                                                            708 (3.3%)

    2013 Estimated Employed                                                 21,714
    Population by Job Type
     - Blue Collar                                                             2,743 (12.6%)
     - White Collar                                                          15,125 (69.7%)
     - Service & Farm                                                          3,846 (17.7%)

    2013 Estimated Employed                                                 21,714
    Population by Class of Worker
     - Federal Government Workers                                                 500 (2.3%)
     - Local Government Workers                                                1,463 (6.7%)
     - Private For-Profit Workers                                            14,757 (68.0%)
     - Private Non-Profit Workers                                              1,896 (8.7%)
     - Self-Emp Workers                                                        2,508 (11.6%)
     - State Government Workers                                                   543 (2.5%)
     - Unpaid Family Workers                                                        45 (.2%)




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 7 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    2013 Estimated Hispanic                                                   5,662
    Population by Origin
     - Cuban                                                                        60 (1.1%)
     - Mexican                                                                 3,755 (66.3%)
     - Other                                                                   1,763 (31.1%)
     - Puerto Rican                                                                 84 (1.5%)

    2013 Estimated Hispanic                                                   5,662
    Population by Race
     - White                                                                   3,277 (57.9%)
     - Black                                                                        50 (.9%)
     - Am. Indian or Alaska Native                                                163 (2.9%)
     - Asian                                                                        29 (.5%)
     - Native Haw. Or Pac. Islander                                                   6 (.1%)
     - Other                                                                   1,710 (30.2%)
     - Two or More                                                                426 (7.5%)

    2013 Estimated Asian Population                                              955
    by Category
     - Asian Indian                                                               114 (11.9%)
     - Cambodian                                                                      0
     - Chinese, except Taiwanese                                                  132 (13.8%)
     - Filipino                                                                   162 (17.0%)
     - Hmong                                                                          0
     - Japanese                                                                   134 (14.0%)
     - Korean                                                                     173 (18.1%)
     - Laotian                                                                        0
     - Other or 2 or More                                                           69 (7.2%)
     - Thai                                                                         32 (3.4%)
     - Vietnamese                                                                 138 (14.5%)

    2013 Estimated Families                                                 11,136
     - Married-Couple, own children                                            3,419 (30.7%)
     - Married-Couple, no own children                                         5,438 (48.8%)
     - Male Householder, own children                                             404 (3.6%)
     - Male Householder, no own children                                          309 (2.8%)
     - Female Householder, own children                                           923 (8.3%)
     - Female Householder, no own                                                 642 (5.8%)
     children
    2013 Estimated Families by                                              11,136
    Poverty Status
     - Income At or Above Poverty Level                                      10,343 (92.9%)
     - Income At or Above Poverty Level                                        4,317 (38.8%)
     with Children
     - Income Below Poverty Level                                                 793 (7.1%)
     - Income Below Poverty Level with                                            617 (5.5%)
     Children




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 8 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



Location                                                                                                                             Longitude                                    Latitude

1. Littleton                                                                                                                         N/A                                          N/A




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                            Page 9 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
8.   TABLE 1: CHANGES MADE TO PD PLAN
                        TABLE 1: CHANGES MADE TO PD PLAN




    Staff Recommended Conditions of                       Revision                Sheet Number
        Approval from 7-30-2013:

1. Increase Bemis Street setback to 25 feet Standard changed from 20 feet
from new face of curb.                          to 25 feet, thereby increasing     1, 8, and 9
                                                the upper stepbacks to 30' and
                                                50'.
2. Dedicate an easement to the city for the Added a note on Sheet 8 Site
open space and fire access on the west and Plan Drawing
south side of the site after design and                                                8
construction by developer.
3. Prior to issuance of a building permit staff Added a note to Sheet 2 under
will verify the building design is LEED Development Conditions
(Leadership in Energy and Environmental                                                2
Design) Gold or greater energy rating.
Construction shall be in accordance with
said design.
4. The process to finalize the architectural,   Added a note to Sheet 2 under
site and landscape design portions of the       Development Conditions.
subsequent site development plan shall          Modified note to add language
include adjoining property owners and the       clarifying that any review or
Planning Board. Goals of the review shall       recommendation from this
include, but not be limited to:                 process will be advisory and
a. The structure appropriately respects the     not supersede the discretion of
importance of the historic courthouse located city planning staff in reviewing
directly north of the site and while providing and approving the site
a gateway into downtown;                        development plan.
b. The structure is to be integrated into the                                          2
site, context, and pattern of downtown and
Littleton Boulevard by differentiating
portions of the building's mass; increasing
projections and recesses and varying
window styles and patterns.
c. Completion of the west side of Bemis
Street with respect to transitioning from the
single family homes on the east side of the
street and creating a signature entrance to the
Sterne Park neighborhood.
d. Integration of the public gathering space
described below into the northeast corner of
the building.



                                                                                                 1
    Staff Recommended Conditions of                            Revision                 Sheet Number
        Approval from 7-30-2013:


4e. Creating an appropriate landscape design       Added a note to Sheet 2 under
for the riparian area; integrating the structure   Development Conditions.
into the site; creating a pleasing public trail    Modified the language to
out of the emergency access easement.              remove the term "riparian area"
                                                   to allow an optional berm,            2,3,8, and 9
                                                   which would provide screening
                                                   of the basement level.
                                                   Construction of the berm will
                                                   require approval of Englewood
                                                   since it will be in the city ditch
                                                   easement.
5. Project shall include at least 1,200 square     Added a note to Sheet 2 under
feet in the area of Bemis Street and Littleton     Development Conditions
Boulevard of retail cafe or similar
neighborhood scale retail and will be
accentuated with additional outdoor patio
space. The space will be actively marketed                                                    2
by a commercial brokerage firm for at least
three years from opening. At any time the
space is not leased it may be used as a
private amenity to the apartment residents.
The space may also be reserved at the
property owner's sole discretion to
accommodate community or neighborhood
meetings and gatherings.

6. Developer shall implement additional            Added a note to Sheet 2 under
measures to reduce southbound traffic on           Development Conditions.
Bemis Street to include verification by staff      Modified the language to
that the residential lease agreement includes      include an exception stating
provisions to discourage resident vehicle          that no residential lease                  2
access to the site from the south via Bemis        agreement shall create any
Street, or exit the site southbound on Bemis       third party beneficiary in the
Street. Enforcement of the lease provisions        City or any other party, and the
is the sole responsibility of the Developer.       Developer shall not be liable to
                                                   the City or any other party for
                                                   failure to enforce any
                                                   residential lease agreement.




                                                                                                        2
    Staff Recommended Conditions of                           Revision                Sheet Number
        Approval from 7-30-2014:


7. Developer shall install the traffic signal at   Modified the existing note on
Bemis and Littleton Boulevard at the               Sheet 2 under Vehicular
developer's expense and in coordination with       Connectivity to state: "If
other required improvements of the Public          warranted by traffic
Works department.                                  engineering requirements, a              2
                                                   new traffic signal will be
                                                   installed at the intersection of
                                                   Littleton Blvd. and Bemis
                                                   Street in coordination with a
                                                   secondary traffic signal at
                                                   Court Place. The traffic signal
                                                   shall be provided at
                                                   Developer's expense."

8. Developer shall widen Bemis Street as           Previous plan included note on
shown in the planned development plan for          site plan and street sections.
Broadstone at Littleton planned development        Additional note added on Sheet       2,8, and 9
plan and as approved by the Public Works           2 under Vehicular Connectivity
Department.

9. The recommendations from the sound              Previous plan included note
mitigation study dated 9/20/2012 shall be          No. 4 under General Notes on             1
implemented.                                       sheet 1.

10. Developer shall expand the width of the        Added a note to Sheet 2 under
sidewalk along the bridge over the railroad        Development Conditions
depression at Alamo Avenue to                                                               2
accommodate increased pedestrian use as
approved by the Public Works Department.

11. Modify the setback standards for the           Increased the minimum west
west and south elevations so 33% of Level 5        setback from 30' to 100' for
of the southern building shall step back 25        Floors B-3 and 125'for 33% of         1 and 8
feet from the setback of Level 1.                  Floor 4 (Level 5 was removed).
                                                   South setback for Floor 4
                                                   increased to 55'.
12. Developer shall pay the fees adopted by        Added a note to Sheet 2 under
an ordinance of general applicability that are     Development Conditions
in effect at the time of issuance of the                                                    2
building permit.



                                                                                                     3
  Modifications Proposed by Applicant                    Revision               Sheet Number
            from 7-30-2014:


Decrease units from 250 to 225 and density     Land Use     Summary    Chart
from 56 du/ac to 50 du/ac                      revised                                2

Increase the 10' building setback from         Land Use Summary Chart and
Littleton Boulevard to 15'                     drawings revised                 1,6,7,8 and 9

Height of building lowered from 59' (5         Land Use Summary Chart
floors) to 49' (4 floors); except that any     updated and height
walkout basement level along the west          measurement clarified under
façade of the structure will not be counted    new footnote "a" on Sheet 1.
toward the 4-story height limitation.          Measurement demonstrated on
                                               drawing on Sheet 9. References   1,2,3,4 and 9.
                                               to 5th story/6th level removed
                                               from Sheets 2 and 9. Graphics
                                               on Sheets 3 and 4 modified to
                                               reflect building changes.
Incorporation of berm in the former riparian   Note on Sheet 2 under
area.                                          Development Conditions; note       2,8 and 9
                                               on Sheet 8 (site plan) and
                                               graphic/note on Sheet 9




                                                                                                4
9.   BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION
        PD PLAN, REVISED 08/21/13
