                                                                              Staff Report
TO:            Littleton Planning Board

FROM:          Jan Dickinson, Principal Planner

DATE:          August 26, 2013

SUBJECT: Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R,
         2100 W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street




POLICY QUESTION:

Should the city allow conversion of commercially zoned property to residential use at the intensity
proposed by the requested Planned Development zoning?

BACKGROUND:

On June 24, 2013, the Planning Board reviewed the proposed rezoning and general planned
development plan for 250 units and voted 7-0 to deny Planning Board Resolution No. 13-03, which
recommended conditional approval. On July 8, 2013, the Board voted 7-0 to approve Planning Board
Resolution No. 13-04 that forwards a recommendation of denial to City Council.

The public hearing for City Council was set for July 30 at which time the applicant proposed the
following changes:

   ·   Reduced height from five stories to four;

   ·   Reduced the number of units from 250 to 225 decreasing the density from 56 du/ac to 50 du/ac;
       and

   ·   Increased the building setback on Littleton Boulevard from 10 to 15 feet.

Instead of proceeding with the scheduled public hearing, City Council voted 6-1 to remand the rezoning
request back to the Planning Board for review in light of the changes to the project (minor, as defined in
10-12-4(D)2) proposed by the developer. In addition, the applicant is proposing berming on the west
side of the site. Constructing the berm in the city ditch easement will require a license from the City of
Englewood. Englewood city staff has expressed initial concern with this proposal.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 2

STAFF ANALYSIS:

The previous staff recommendation included twelve conditions, which were attached to the proposed
ordinance. The applicant has agreed to comply with all of the recommended conditions and has
incorporated them into the revised PD plan. The following table lists all the revisions included on the
attached PD Plan and references the corresponding sheet number of plan.


Staff Recommended Conditions of Approval:                      Revision                 Sheet Number


1. Increase Bemis Street setback to 25 feet from Standard changed from 20 feet to
new face of curb.                                    25 feet, thereby increasing the     1, 8, and 9
                                                     upper stepbacks to 30' and 50'.
2. Dedicate an easement to the city for the open Added a note on Sheet 8 Site Plan
space and fire access on the west and south side Drawing
of the site after design and construction by                                                  8
developer.
3. Prior to issuance of a building permit staff will Added a note to Sheet 2 under
verify the building design is LEED (Leadership Development Conditions
in Energy and Environmental Design) Gold or                                                   2
greater energy rating. Construction shall be in
accordance with said design.
4. The process to finalize the architectural, site   Added a note to Sheet 2 under
and landscape design portions of the subsequent Development Conditions.
site development plan shall include adjoining        Modified note to add language
property owners and the Planning Board. Goals clarifying that any review or
of the review shall include, but not be limited to: recommendation from this
a. The structure appropriately respects the          process will be advisory and not
importance of the historic courthouse located        supersede the discretion of city
directly north of the site and while providing a     planning staff in reviewing and
gateway into downtown;                               approving the site development
b. The structure is to be integrated into the site, plan.
context, and pattern of downtown and Littleton                                                2
Boulevard by differentiating portions of the
building's mass; increasing projections and
recesses and varying window styles and patterns.
c. Completion of the west side of Bemis Street
with respect to transitioning from the single
family homes on the east side of the street and
creating a signature entrance to the Sterne Park
neighborhood.
d. Integration of the public gathering space
described below into the northeast corner of the
building.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 3


Staff Recommended Conditions of Approval:                           Revision                  Sheet Number


4e. Creating an appropriate landscape design for        Added a note to Sheet 2 under
the riparian area; integrating the structure into       Development Conditions.
the site; creating a pleasing public trail out of the   Modified the language to remove
emergency access easement.                              the term "riparian area" to allow
                                                        an optional berm, which would          2,3,8, and 9
                                                        provide screening of the basement
                                                        level. Construction of the berm
                                                        will require approval of
                                                        Englewood since it will be in the
                                                        city ditch easement.
5. Project shall include at least 1,200 square feet     Added a note to Sheet 2 under
in the area of Bemis Street and Littleton               Development Conditions
Boulevard of retail cafe or similar neighborhood
scale retail and will be accentuated with
additional outdoor patio space. The space will
be actively marketed by a commercial brokerage                                                      2
firm for at least three years from opening. At
any time the space is not leased it may be used as
a private amenity to the apartment residents. The
space may also be reserved at the property
owner's sole discretion to accommodate
community or neighborhood meetings and
gatherings.

6. Developer shall implement additional                 Added a note to Sheet 2 under
measures to reduce southbound traffic on Bemis          Development Conditions.
Street to include verification by staff that the        Modified the language to include
residential lease agreement includes provisions         an exception stating that no
to discourage resident vehicle access to the site       residential lease agreement shall           2
from the south via Bemis Street, or exit the site       create any third party beneficiary
southbound on Bemis Street. Enforcement of the          in the City or any other party, and
lease provisions is the sole responsibility of the      the Developer shall not be liable
Developer.                                              to the City or any other party for
                                                        failure to enforce any residential
                                                        lease agreement.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 4



Staff Recommended Conditions of Approval:                      Revision                  Sheet Number


7. Developer shall install the traffic signal at   Modified the existing note on
Bemis and Littleton Boulevard at the developer's   Sheet 2 under Vehicular
expense and in coordination with other required    Connectivity to state: "If
improvements of the Public Works department.       warranted by traffic engineering
                                                   requirements, a new traffic signal          2
                                                   will be installed at the
                                                   intersection of Littleton Blvd. and
                                                   Bemis Street in coordination with
                                                   a secondary traffic signal at Court
                                                   Place. The traffic signal shall be
                                                   provided at Developer's expense."

8. Developer shall widen Bemis Street as shown     Previous plan included note on
in the planned development plan for Broadstone     site plan and street sections.
at Littleton planned development plan and as       Additional note added on Sheet 2        2,8, and 9
approved by the Public Works Department.           under Vehicular Connectivity

9. The recommendations from the sound              Previous plan included note No. 4
mitigation study dated 9/20/2012 shall be          under General Notes on sheet 1.             1
implemented.

10. Developer shall expand the width of the        Added a note to Sheet 2 under
sidewalk along the bridge over the railroad        Development Conditions
depression at Alamo Avenue to accommodate                                                      2
increased pedestrian use as approved by the
Public Works Department.

11. Modify the setback standards for the west      Increased the minimum west
and south elevations so 33% of Level 5 of the      setback from 30' to 100' for
southern building shall step back 25 feet from     Floors B-3 and 125'for 33% of            1 and 8
the setback of Level 1.                            Floor 4 (Level 5 was removed).
                                                   South setback for Floor 4
                                                   increased to 55'.
12. Developer shall pay the fees adopted by an     Added a note to Sheet 2 under
ordinance of general applicability that are in     Development Conditions
effect at the time of issuance of the building                                                 2
permit.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 5


     Modifications Proposed by Applicant:                         Revision                Sheet Number


Decrease units from 250 to 225 and density from      Land Use Summary Chart revised
56 du/ac to 50 du/ac                                                                            2

Increase the 10' building setback from Littleton     Land Use Summary Chart and
Boulevard to 15'                                     drawings revised                     1,6,7,8 and 9

Height of building lowered from 59' (5 floors) to    Land Use Summary Chart
49' (4 floors); except that any walkout basement     updated and height measurement
level along the west façade of the structure will    clarified under new footnote "a"
not be counted toward the 4-story height             on Sheet 1. Measurement
limitation.                                          demonstrated on drawing on
                                                     Sheet 9. References to 5th           1,2,3,4 and 9.
                                                     story/6th level removed from
                                                     Sheets 2 and 9. Graphics on
                                                     Sheets 3 and 4 modified to reflect
                                                     building changes.
Incorporation of berm in the former riparian         Note on Sheet 2 under
area.                                                Development Conditions; note on        2,8 and 9
                                                     Sheet 8 (site plan) and
                                                     graphic/note on Sheet 9

For this project area and request, two sets of policies must be evaluated:

     ·   The Citywide Goals, Sterne Park and Downtown Neighborhood Plan portions of the
         COMPLAN; and

     ·   The Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study and Design Guidelines for the Sheriff's Department Site
         (2000 W. Littleton Boulevard).

Following are the pertinent criteria from the above-referenced documents, which was used to
evaluate the proposal. The staff comments are denoted below each statement in italics, with current
updated comments in bold.

I.       City's COMPLAN-Community-Wide Goals and Policies:

The proposal with the recommended conditions of approval is consistent with the following pertinent
Community-wide goals and policies of the COMPLAN:

Goal 1:           Preserve Littleton's unique identity by protecting historic structures and emphasizing
Littleton's distinct social and economic heritage with consideration given to:
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 6
        a.     View preservation
        b.     Landscape preservation
        c.     Topography
        d.     Human Qualities
        e.     Encouragement of variety in housing stock and types of people.

June 24, 2013: With the walkout basement level, the west side of the building will be six stories for the
majority of the elevation. However, the two separate buildings break up the visual massing along with
additional step backs and design requirements will create at least five sub-masses. The proposed maximum
number of floors and setbacks from Littleton Blvd. (5' step back above the 2nd floor, 25' step back above the
3rd floor and then 70' back above the 4th floor) lower the building massing significantly reinforcing the
prominence of the Historic Courthouse. Staff condition #4 is review of the architectural, site and landscape
design by the Planning Board thereby ensuring that the massing and architectural details will respect the
Historic Courthouse and result in an aesthetically pleasing view from downtown.

NOW: The lower building height, the greater setback from Littleton Boulevard, the screening of the
walkout basement level with a berm and the additional step backs and design requirements now give an
appearance of several three and four-story buildings along the western edge. The additional setback
from Littleton Boulevard combined with the lower building height further reduces the scale of the
northerly portion of the building in relation to the Historic Courthouse. Staff's recommended condition
#4 as stated above has been added under the Development Conditions on Sheet 2.

Goal 2: Develop Littleton's economic independence and reemphasize downtown as Littleton's economic
        and social center.

June 24, 2013: Development of the site at the full potential of the existing B-2 zoning will have greater
impact on the adjoining neighborhoods, which is in conflict with other goals to protect the
neighborhood. The additional residences will increase the market for Main Street and Littleton
Boulevard businesses and staff condition #5 provides the opportunity for a limited residential use. The
adopted design guidelines for this area recommend multiple family residential in this location to support
the nearby light rail transit station. Included in the attached application materials, the applicant has
provided a fiscal benefit comparison showing greater annual revenues and one-time fee and taxes for
the proposed residential development versus a mixed use allowed under the present B-2 zoning.

NOW: The above statement still applies. Recommended staff condition #5 is noted under the
Development Conditions on Sheet 2 of the PD Plan.


Goal 7: Promote and maintain an attractive and healthful living environment for present and future Littleton
        Residents.

June 24, 2013: The lower building heights and larger step-backs along Bemis and Littleton Boulevard
lessen the visual impact on the adjoining neighborhood. In addition, providing residential housing near the
light rail transit will encourage walking and another mode of travel reducing the use of motor vehicles. The
recommended conditions of approval include widening the sidewalk and street right-of-way for Bemis Street,
installing a traffic signal at Bemis and Littleton Blvd., widening the sidewalk on the Alamo Bridge to provide
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 7

safer pedestrian access to the transit and downtown, conveying an easement to construct a trail connecting
to the public trail system, and constructing a sustainable building. Refer to staff conditions #2, 7, 8, and 10.

NOW: The setbacks and stepbacks along Bemis have been increased from 20' to 25' for Floors 1 and 2,
and subsequently increased to 30' for Floor 3 and 50' for Floor 4. The setbacks and stepbacks along
Littleton Boulevard have been increased from 10' to 15' for Floors 1 and 2, from 15' to 20' for Floor 3,
from 35' to 40' for Floor 4. In addition, a fifth floor has been removed. The recommended staff
conditions 2, 7, 8 and 10, as described above have been incorporated into the revised PD Plan.

Housing Policy 11: Encourage known energy efficient construction techniques in all types of housing.

June 24, 2013: Condition #3 requires a LEED standard to be met.

NOW: This condition is noted under Development Conditions on Sheet 2 of the PD plan.

Land Use Policy 1: The City shall emphasize the use of the Planned Development (PD) technique for all
new development within the City and provide incentives for developers to use this technique.

June 24, 2013: Approval of a Planned Development Plan is included with the rezoning request to PD-R.
The PD process allows specific standards to be applied to a particular development in order to mitigate
impacts to the surrounding neighborhood and area. In addition to development standards noted on the
proposed PD Plan, Conditions 1 through 12 meet this policy.

NOW: The above statement still applies. Staff recommended conditions 1 through 12 have been noted
and incorporated in the revised PD plan.

Land Use Policy 3: New development in the interior of established neighborhoods, not adjacent to arterial
streets, should respect the existing densities and land uses of the neighborhoods in order that the character is
preserved.

June 24, 2013: The proposal along with implementing the conditions of approval will result in a residential
development that is lower in scale and building mass, which is more compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood. Refer to conditions 1, 4, and 11.

NOW: Lowering the building height, removing the fifth floor, reducing the density, and increasing
setbacks have further reduced the scale and building mass making it more compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood. Staff recommended conditions 1, 4 and 11 are included in the revised
PD Plan.

Transportation Policy 2:        Provide traffic controls on internal residential and collector streets to improve
safety and to maintain proper levels of traffic speed and volume.

June 24, 2013: The Littleton Boulevard Design Guidelines recommend properties on Littleton Boulevard
utilize the intersecting secondary streets, like Bemis Street, for access. The applicant proposes a traffic
signal at the intersection of Bemis and Littleton, and a "No Right Turn" sign on their site to prevent vehicles
exiting the development from traveling south into the neighborhood on Bemis Street. The applicant is
agreeable to placing other measures in the lease agreement (condition #6).
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 8

NOW: The applicant's commitment to bearing the costs of the traffic signal and recommended condition
#6 are both noted on Sheet 2 of the revised PD Plan.

Transportation Policy 10: Maintain and improve existing sidewalks and bike systems so that safe
access is provided within the City.

June 24, 2013 Conditions 8 and 10 require widening of Bemis Street along the site's frontage and
expanding the width of the sidewalk along the bridge over the railroad depression at Alamo to
accommodate increased pedestrian use.

NOW: Conditions 8 and 10 are included in the revised PD Plan both graphically and noted on Sheet
2.


II.    Downtown Neighborhood Plan

Policy LU-10: Development adjacent to the identified iconic structures should respect and not detract
from their prominence. (Staff note: The plan identifies the Courthouse as such a structure)

LU-10a:       Require that the height, scale, building placement, and other design elements of new
construction, expansion, or other property changes respect and do not overwhelm iconic structures.
Employ techniques such as building setbacks and step-backs for upper stories, and further detail that
direction in the Downtown Design Standards and Guidelines.

Policy LU-12: Development in areas that are outside of downtown but immediately adjacent to
downtown gateways should be planned with consideration of their proximity to downtown and their
potential role and impact on downtown. The four gateways are located at Main Street/Littleton
Boulevard, Main Street/Alamo Street/Santa Fe Drive, Prince Street/Santa Fe Drive, and the Downtown
Littleton light rail station.

LU-12a: Plan new developments immediately adjacent to downtown gateways so that they improve
connections to downtown, function as part of a gateway to downtown, follow the same design standards,
and are consistent with the Downtown Neighborhood Plan.

June 24, 2013: Instead of one large building, the PD Plan proposes two separate buildings thereby
visually reducing the mass and scale of the project. The standards on the PD Plan and the
recommended conditions of approval provide building step-backs, which further reduce the scale of the
building in relation to the Historic Courthouse. Staff is also recommending a more robust architectural
review process because of the significance of the site (condition #4).

NOW: All graphics and notes on the PD Plan have been updated to show the new building design
with more traditional architecture consistent with the courthouse design. The new design is one level
shorter and steps farther back from Littleton Boulevard, which further reduces the scale of the
building in relation to the Historic Courthouse. Condition #4 is noted under the Development
Conditions on Sheet 2.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 9

III.   Sterne Park Neighborhood

Neighborhood Goal 1: Preserve the unique character of the neighborhood and general "quality of life"
aspects, especially the mix of architectural styles, mature trees, and quiet atmosphere of the residential
areas.

June 24, 2013: The proposal along with implementing the conditions of approval will result in a residential
development that is lower in scale and building much more compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
Implementing additional measures to reduce southbound traffic into the neighborhood is detailed in the
recommended conditions of approval. Staff is also recommending increasing the setback of the building on
Bemis Street (condition #1).

NOW: Lowering the building height, removing the fifth floor, reducing the density, and increasing
setbacks have further reduced the scale and building mass making it more compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood. The PD Plan now reflects the recommended increased building setback
on Bemis Street. The measures to reduce southbound traffic into the neighborhood are noted on
Sheet 2 of the revised PD Plan.

Neighborhood Goal 2:         Improve transportation facilities and traffic controls only to the extent
necessary to improve safety and to provide good traffic circulation within the neighborhood.

Transportation Policy 1: That traffic controls in internal residential and collector streets be maintained
or improved to improve safety and to prevent further increases in speed and volume of traffic.

June 24, 2013: The developer has committed to installing a traffic signal at Bemis and Littleton Blvd.
(condition #7). Implementing additional measures to reduce southbound traffic into the neighborhood is
described in condition #6.

NOW: The developer's commitment to both the traffic signal and measures to reduce southbound
traffic on Bemis (conditions 6 and 7) are noted on Sheet 2 of the revised PD Plan. The reduction in
the number of units will result in a reduction in the number vehicle trips generated.

Land Use Policy 2: That emphasis in the decision-making process be placed on the preservation of the
neighborhood as a sound, desirable residential area.

June 24, 2013: The design guidelines of the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study recommend residential
development at a density of 50 units per acre. The proposal along with implementing the conditions of
approval will result in a residential development that is lower in scale and building mass, and is more
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. Constructing two smaller building masses instead of one
large building mass; providing additional step-backs for floors above the second and third stories, design
requirements, which further visually break up the massing and lower the building near the courthouse meets
the intent of the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study (condition #11). Emphasis in the decision-making
process to preserve the neighborhood will be accomplished with the recommended condition #4.

NOW: The revised proposal reduces the density to 50 du/ac. The conditions of approval, including
the referenced conditions #4 and #11 are incorporated into the revised PD Plan. The reduction in
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 10


building height, removal of the fifth floor and increased setbacks and stepbacks has further reduced
the scale and mass of the building making it more compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.


IV.       Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study Design Guidelines for Sheriff's Site and Community
          Center Site (Littleton Station)


      ·   1C1 Massing/Height/Scale

      ·   1C1.2 Building form next to Littleton Blvd. and Bemis Street should be a maximum of three
          stories, stepping up in height away from the street.


June 24, 2013: The setbacks along both Littleton Blvd. and Bemis Street are consistent with the above
guideline. The 1st and 2nd floors will be 10 feet from Littleton Blvd., 3rd floor will be 15 feet, and the 4th
floor will be 35 feet. The PD Plan proposes a 20 feet setback from Bemis for the 1st and 2nd floors, 25
feet for the 3rd floor and 45 feet for the 4th floor. Staff recommends that the 20 feet setback be increased
to 25 feet adding five feet more to the two upper setbacks to make this frontage more compatible with
the east side of Bemis (condition #1).

NOW: The setbacks and stepbacks along both Littleton Blvd. and Bemis Street have been increased.
The Bemis Street setback has been increased to 25' for Floors 1 and 2, 30' for Floor 3, and 50' for
Floor 4. Littleton Blvd. setbacks are now 15' for Floors 1-2, 20' for Floor 3 and 40' for Floor 4. The
fifth floor has been removed.

      ·   1C3 Architectural Character

Goal 1: The architectural character should complement the existing historic architecture of this subarea.
Goal 2: To create buildings that provides human scale, interest, and variation.

      ·   1C3.1 All buildings should be designed especially for the context and character of the area.
      ·   1C3.2 The buildings should possess an architectural character that reinforces the historic
          character of the existing buildings in this area.

June 24, 2013: The greater setbacks and reduced building heights along Littleton Blvd. and Bemis
Street bring this building to a human scale with interest and variation. The larger step-backs above the
second story along Bemis Street make the building mass more compatible with the lower scale buildings
along Bemis Street and reinforce the prominence of the Courthouse. Refer to new conditions 1, 4, and
11.

NOW: As described previously, the proposed changes will result in a development consistent with the
stated goals. Staff recommended conditions 1, 4, and 11 are incorporated in the revised PD Plan.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 11
    · 1C6 Rooftop
    · 1C6.1 Sloped roofs are preferred over flat roofs.


While the primary roof form will be flat, the development guidelines on the PD Plan state that some
sloping roof forms may be used to create visual interest and to relate to the adjacent buildings.

   ·   2A1 Building Relationships Goal: To present an attractive west façade to the light rail station
       and downtown.

June 24, 2013: With the walkout basement level, the west side of the building will be six stories for the
majority of the elevation. However, the two separate buildings break up the visual massing along with
additional step backs and design requirements to create at least five-sub masses. Recommended
condition #11 will further modify the setback standards for both the west and south elevations so 33% of
the Level 5 of the southern building shall step back 25 feet from the setback of the Level 1. In addition,
recommended condition #4 employs a process, which will include affected residents and the Planning
Board during the finalization of the architectural design.

NOW: The lower building height, the greater setback from Littleton Boulevard, the screening of the
walkout basement level with a berm and the additional step backs and design requirements now give an
appearance of several three and four-story buildings along the western edge as shown on Sheet 3 of the
PD plan. The additional setback from Littleton Boulevard combined with the lower building height
further reduces the scale of the northerly portion of the building in relation to the Historic Courthouse.
Staff's recommended conditions #4 and #11 as stated above have been added to the revised PD Plan.

   ·   2C1 Massing and Height

       Goals: To reflect the scale and height of the adjacent neighborhood and historic courthouse.
       To maintain a two to three story edge to Littleton Blvd, particularly along the south side to
       provide more sun exposure to the street.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 12




                                                                               From page 10 of
                                                                               Littleton
                                                                               Boulevard
                                                                               Design Guidelines




   ·   2C1.1: Higher building forms should be located at the southwest and west portions of the site
       stepping down toward Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street. No building shall exceed the height
       of the courthouse, 81 feet. (Staff note: The cupola is 81 feet while the larger mass of the building
       is shorter).

   ·   2C1.2: The building (s) along Bemis Street should respect the scale and pattern of the houses
       across the street through such design strategies as the articulation of building form, column/pier
       spacing, window pattern, and similar approaches.

June 24, 2013: The plan proposes two separate structures similar to the above site plan. Additionally,
floor step backs above the second floor for the third and fourth stories along Bemis and Littleton Blvd.
respect the scale of the houses along Bemis and the prominence of the Courthouse. The taller portions
of the buildings will be concentrated at the southwest corner of the development.

As stated previously, recommended conditions of approval will further modify the setback standards for
both the west and south elevations and employ a process, which will include affected residents and the
Planning Board during the finalization of the architectural design (conditions 4 and 11).

NOW: As described previously, the proposed changes with greater setbacks and lower building
heights will result in a development consistent with the stated goals. Staff recommended conditions 4
and 11 are incorporated in the revised PD Plan.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 13

     ·   Development Catalyst Sites (Folded Map)
         Arapahoe County Sheriff's Facility

June 24, 2013: The folded map included in the corridor study refers to medium density residential
development as up to 50 units per acre. The proposed density of 56 units per acre may be justified with the
recommended conditions, which include the developer providing trail connections, constructing a
sustainable building and providing safety improvements such as widening the Alamo bridge sidewalk and a
traffic signal at Bemis (conditions 2, 3, 7, and 10).

NOW: The proposed density has been reduced to 50 units per acre. Staff recommended conditions 2, 3, 7
and 10 are now incorporated in the revised PD Plan.

V.       Planned Development District:

Section 10-2-23 (E) (4) (a) states that Planning Board shall base its recommendation on the conformance
of the proposed plan with the stated intent of the Planned Development District. Following are the
pertinent citations:

10-2-23 (A): Intent: The Planned Development (PD) District is hereby created to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare by allowing more flexible development, based upon a
comprehensive, integrated plan.

10-2-23(B):     Application and Intent: Further, in the application of this Section it is the intent of the
Council to:

     1. Encourage more creative and effective use of land and public or private services, and to
        accommodate changes in land development technology so that the resulting economies benefit
        the community.

            ·   The additional residences at this location will increase the market for Main Street and
                Littleton Boulevard businesses and note #3 under Development Conditions on Sheet 2 of
                the revised PD Plan provides the opportunity for a limited residential use.

     2. Encourage innovation and efficiency in residential development to meet the growing demands
     for housing of all types and designs for persons of any social or economic status.

            ·   With a 4% apartment vacancy rate in Littleton, the development will meet the demand for
                apartment housing and provide new product to an existing older housing stock. New
                energy efficient building materials and appliances will help conserve natural resources.

     3. Encourage innovative development or redevelopment of all land uses to meet the contemporary
        needs of the community by providing for a greater variety and mix of uses including those which
        may coexist on the same parcel or within the same building as shown on an approved general PD
        plan.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 14
            · As stated above, the development will provide new housing near downtown Littleton and
               the light rail.

   4. Provide a process, which relates the design and development of a site to the particular
      characteristics of the site.

           ·   The planned development plan process allows specific standards to be applied to a
               particular development in order to mitigate impacts to the surrounding neighborhood
               and provide additional offsite improvements to benefit the community. The recommended
               conditions of approval agreed to by the applicant have been incorporated into the revised
               PD plan. This will assure that the project will meet the intent of this statement. The
               project has been evaluated against and is found to meet the Littleton Boulevard Corridor
               Study Design Guidelines for the Sheriff's site, which were created and adopted by
               Council to address the design and development of the subject site.

   5. Require that the nature and intensity of development be supported by adequate utilities,
      transportation network, drainage systems, and open space to serve the development, and to
      minimize impacts on adjacent existing and future development.

           ·   The development will link to a trail network, is adjacent to transit, and provides on-site
               recreation facilities designed for the expected population. Existing utilities and
               roadways will serve the site. In addition, further safety improvements will be provided
               such as a traffic signal at Bemis Street and widening the sidewalk on the Alamo bridge.

   6. Encourage development that is consistent with the policies and guidelines established in the
      adopted Comprehensive Plan for the area and for the City.

           ·   As previously described, the proposed density, the larger step-backs above the second
               and third stories and constructing two smaller building masses instead of one large
               structure, along with the recommended conditions, are consistent with the intent of the
               COMPLAN and the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study.


STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS:

Staff finds that the proposed changes to the project are consistent with the COMPLAN and meets the
design guidelines of the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study.


PROPOSED MOTION:


Per section 10-12-4(B)2(b), the Planning Board shall determine if the request meets the provisions of the
declaration of public policy as set forth in section 10-12-1. The Planning Board must therefore base its
recommendation on the consistency of the proposed rezoning with the pertinent goals and policies of the
COMPLAN. In addition, Planning Board must find that the proposed rezoning promotes the general
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
August 26, 2013
Page 15

welfare of the community and it conforms with the stated intent of the planned development district as
specified in 10-2-23(A) and (B).

Per Section 10-12-4(B) 2(b), the Board may vote to:

           ·   Recommend approval of the proposed rezoning request: I move to approve Planning
               Board Resolution No. 13-07 which forwards a recommendation of approval to City
               Council.

           ·   Recommend approval the request with conditions reasonably related to meeting the
               criteria upon which the granting of the application would be based;

           ·   Recommend approval of a higher classification than requested;

           ·   Recommend denial;

           ·   Or table the matter, to a date certain, pending the provision of further information by the
               applicant or staff.



Attachments:

1.     Planning Board Resolution No. 13-07
2.     Planning Board Minutes, 6/24/13
3.     Letters from Citizens
4.     Application information
5.     Revised PD Plan 8/21/13
                                    RESOLUTION NO. 13-07

                                           Series of 2013

               A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING BOARD OF THE CITY
               OF    LITTLETON,  COLORADO,    RECOMMENDING
               APPROVAL OF A REQUEST TO REZONE PROPERTY
               KNOWN AS 2100 WEST LITTLETON BOULEVARD AND
               5759 SOUTH BEMIS STREET, FROM B-2 COMMUNITY
               BUSINESS AND R-3 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL,
               RESPECTIVELY, TO PD-R PLANNED DEVELOPMENT
               RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.

                 WHEREAS, the Planning Board of the City of Littleton, Colorado, held a public
hearing at its regular meeting of June 24, 2013 to consider a proposal to rezone from B-2 and R-3 to
PD-R property located at 2100 West Littleton Boulevard and 5759 South Bemis Street, respectively,
and more specifically described in Exhibit A, which is attached hereto and made a part hereof by this
reference;
                 WHEREAS, the Planning Board voted 7-0 to approve Planning Board Resolution 13-
04 that forwards a recommendation of denial to Council;

              WHEREAS, prior to the City Council public hearing on July 30, 2013, the applicant
proposed changes to the application which City Council found significant in nature and voted 6-1 to
remand the modifications to the Planning Board for its review and recommendation;

               WHEREAS, the Planning Board held a second public hearing at its regular meeting of
August 26, 2013 to consider the applicant's modifications which includes a revised PD Plan
incorporating the twelve staff recommended conditions of approval in addition to: 1.) reducing the
building height from five stories to four, 2.) reducing the number of units from 250 to 225 thereby
decreasing the density from 56 du/ac to 50 du/ac, and 3.) increasing the building setback on Littleton
Boulevard from 10 to 15 feet; and

              WHEREAS, the Planning Board considered evidence and testimony concerning the
proposed rezoning and revised general planned development plan at said public hearing.

            NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE PLANNING BOARD OF THE
CITY OF LITTLETON, COLORADO, THAT:

               Section 1.     The Planning Board finds that, with the modifications shown on the
revised PD Plan dated August 21, 2013, the proposal to rezone the property described on the attached
Exhibit A to multiple-family residential is consistent with the development guidelines of the
Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study and the goals and policies of the COMPLAN, conforms with the
stated intent of the planned development district as stated in Section 10-2-23 (A) and (B) of the
Littleton Municipal Code, and promotes the general welfare of the community:
Resolution No. 13-07
Littleton City Planning Board
Page 2

               Section 2.     The Planning Board does hereby forward a recommendation of
approval to the City Council on said proposed rezoning and general planned development plan as
modified on August 21, 2013.

INTRODUCED, READ AND ADOPTED at the regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Board

of the City of Littleton, Colorado, held on the 26th day of August, 2013, at 7:00 p.m. in the Littleton

Center, 2255 West Berry Avenue, Littleton, Colorado, by the following vote:

AYES:

NAYS:

ABSENT:

ATTEST:                                        APPROVED:

BY: __________________________                 _____________________________________

Glen Van Nimwegen, Secretary                   Randy Duzan, Chair

Approved as to form:

______________________________
Kristin Schledorn, Deputy City Attorney
Resolution No. 13-07
Littleton City Planning Board
Page 3


                         BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION

                                PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PLAN

                                         EXHIBIT "A"

                                   Rezoning from B-2 to PD-R


PARCEL 1:
LOT 1, BLOCK 1,
INTERMOUNTAIN SUBDIVISION, COUNTY OF ARAPAHOE,
STATE OF COLORADO.
PARCEL CONTAINS (128,249 SQUARE FEET) 2.9442 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.


PARCEL4:
A PARCEL OF GROUND IN THE CITY OF LITTLETON, ARAPAHOE COUNTY,
LOCATED SOUTH OF THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR WEST LITTLETON
BOULEVARD, EAST OF A VERTICAL WALL CONSTRUCTED ON BNSF RAILWAY
COMPANY PROPERTY, APPROXIMATELY 10 FEET EAST OF THE CENTERLINE OF
THE MOST EASTERLY TRACKS, NORTH OF THE PROLONGATION OF THE SOUTH
LINE OF LOT 1, BLOCK 1, INTERMOUNTAIN SUBDIVISION PLATTED IN THE
RECORDS OF SAID COUNTY AND WEST OF THE WEST LINE OF SAID LOT 1 IN THE
SW 1/4 SW 1/4, OF SECTION 16, T. 5 S., R 68 W., 6TH P.M., DESCRIBED AS:

BEGINNING AT THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF SAID LOT 1; THENCE ALONG THE
SOUTH LINE OF SAID PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR WEST LITTLETON BOULEVARD
THROUGH THE FOLLOWING TWO COURSES:

N 90°00'00" W (S8947'10"W), 48.70 FEET ANDS 61°15'14" W (S6102'24"W), 148.06 FEET
TO SAID WALL; THENCE S 24°28'06" W (S2415'18"W), ALONG SAID WALL, 359.37
FEET TO SAID PROLONGATION; THENCE S 74°59'30" E (S7512'20.E)ALONG SAID
PROLONGATION, 152.01 FEET TO THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF SAID LOT 1;
THENCE N 2225'00" E (N2212'10"E), ALONG SAID WEST LINE, 473.44 FEET TO THE
POINT OF BEGINNING.

COUNTY OF ARAPAHOE, STATE OF COLORADO.

BEARINGS IN PARENTHESES ARE PER FIELD SURVEY.
PARCEL CONTAINS (61,313 SQUARE FEET) 1.4076 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.
Resolution No. 13-07
Littleton City Planning Board
Page 4


                         BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION
                           PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PLAN

                                EXHIBIT "A" (continued)

                                Rezoning from R-3 to PD-R



PARCEL 2:
A PARCEL OF LAND IN THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHWEST
QUARTER OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 5 SOUTH, RANGE 68 WEST OF THE 6TH
PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, COUNTY OF ARAPAHOE, STATE OF COLORADO, MORE
PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
COMMENCING AT A POINT OF INTERSECTION OF THE SOUTH LINE OF WEST
LITTLETON BOULEVARD AND THE WEST LINE OF SOUTH BEMIS STREET; THENCE
SOUTH (S0012'10"W) 390 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING; THENCE WEST
(S89°47'10"W) 125 FEET; THENCE SOUTH (S00°12'10"W) 49 FEET; THENCE EAST
(N89°47'10"E) 125 FEET TO A POINT ON THE WEST LINE OF SOUTH BEMIS STREET;
THENCE NORTH (N00°12'10"E) 49 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING,
COUNTY OF ARAPAHOE, STATE OF COLORADO.

      PARCEL CONTAINS (6,125 SQUARE FEET) 0.1406 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.
Resolution No. 13-07
Littleton City Planning Board
Page 5

                         BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION
                           PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PLAN

                                EXHIBIT "A" (continued)

                                Overall Legal Description




A PARCEL OF LAND BEING LOT 1, BLOCK 1, INTERMOUNTAIN SUBDIVISION
(RECEPTION NUMBER 1465740), AND A PART OF THE SW1/4 OF SECTION 16, T.5S.,
R.68W., OF THE 6TH P.M., CITY OF LITTLETON, COUNTY OF ARAPAHOE, STATE OF
COLORADO, AND BEING MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
BEGINNING AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF LOT 1, BLOCK 1, INTERMOUNTAIN
SUBDIVISION; THENCE S0012'10"W ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID LOT 1AND
ALONG THE EAST LINE OF A PARCEL OF LAND DESCRIBED IN DEED RECORDED
AT RECEPTION NUMBER B8066096, AND ALONG THE WEST R.O.W LINE OF SOUTH
BEMIS STREET, A DISTANCE OF 439.00 FEET; THENCE S8947'10"W ALONG THE
SOUTH LINE OF SAID PARCEL, A DISTANCE OF 125.00 FEET;
THENCE S0012'10"W ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID LOT 1,A DISTANCE OF 65.66
FEET TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SAID LOT 1;
THENCE N7512'20"W ALONG THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT 1 AND
ALONG THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE EXTENDED AS DESCRIBED IN DEED
RECORDED AT RECEPTION NUMBER B6096785, A DISTANCE OF 411.43 FEET TO A
POINT ON A VERTICAL WALL; THENCE N2415'18"E ALONG THE WESTERLY LINE
OF SAID PARCEL AND ALONG SAID VERTICAL WALL, A DISTANCE OF 359.37 FEET
TO A POINT ON THE SOUTH R.O.W LINE OF WEST LITTLETON BOULEVARD;
THENCE N6102'24"E ALONG SAID SOUTH RO.W. LINE, A DISTANCE OF 148.06 FEET;
THENCE N8947'10"E ALONG SAID SOUTH RO.W. LINE AND ALONG THE NORTH
LINE OF SAID LOT 1,A DISTANCE OF 247.40 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
PARCEL CONTAINS (195,688 SQUARE FEET) 4.4924 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.
PLANNING BOARD MINUTES 06/24/13
Citizen and Business Letters Submitted Prior to Planning
Board Hearing June 24, 2013, and Letters Submitted between
June 24 and August 22, 2013.
REVISED APPLICATION MATERIALS PROVIDED
        BY ALLIANCE RESIDENTIAL
City of Littleton
Community Development Department
2255 West Berry Avenue
Littleton, CO 80120

August 12, 2013

Re:     Rezoning of 2100 W. Littleton Boulevard & 5759 S. Bemis Street

Dear Community Development Department:

Please accept this letter of intent regarding our proposal to rezone and develop the site located at 2100, 2120 West
Littleton Boulevard, and 5759 South Bemis Street. The site is approximately 4.5 acres and currently zoned as B-2
Commercial Business and R-3 Residential. We have submitted a rezoning application to allow for residential use as a
Planned Development. The current property owner is LBI Group, LLC. Their contact information is 2100 W. Littleton
Blvd., suite 300, Littleton, CO 80120. LBI Group, LLC is reachable by phone at 303-782-0003.

As you know, we had a late submission of three additional substantial conditions prior to the last City Council meeting.
We would like to reiterate that although the timing was unfortunate, this was initiated by residents that formerly
opposed our project but are now in support of it. They approached us immediately after our Planning Board hearing to
request further collaboration. This collaboration resulted in the reduced height, density and increased set back along
Littleton Boulevard that is reflected in this application. It also addresses significant concerns raised by Planning Board on
June 24th. As we have discussed, all conditions have now been integrated into the application and are explicit in our PD
Plan.

Currently, the site is comprised of three parcels. The first being Lot 1, Block 1 of the Intermountain Subdivision, which
contains 2100 and 2120 West Littleton Boulevard. Both buildings are currently being used as office space consisting of
11,000 square feet. Approximately 5,500 square feet are occupied by the owner. The second, Parcel 2, is a single family
residential lot known as 5759 Bemis Street. Lastly, Parcel 4 is vacant land that contains a railroad right-of-way, a 25 foot
easement for the Englewood City ditch which was relocated and enclosed underground in a 60 inch reinforced concrete
pipe, and a Qwest fiber optic line.

Our development plan includes construction striving to achieve LEED Gold certification for a luxury apartment rental
community. The community is comprised of no more than 225 units or 50 dwelling units per acre. The product consists
of two buildings which are 2, 3, 4-story wood frame construction over one level of concrete podium construction on the
southwest portion of the site wrapped around a 4 and 5 level above grade concrete parking structure. This revised
massing, density and planned architectural style is intended to compliment and respect the historic courthouse in size,
style and design components.

This application strikes a balance between the adjacent Transitional and Residential zoning on Bemis Street while still
maximizing the economic benefit to the City and support of Downtown Littleton businesses. The guidance provided by
Planning Board and input from residents has further clarified the importance of height and density in the guiding
documents. The proposal now fits squarely within the recommendations of the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study, the
Sterne Park Neighborhood Plan, and the COMPLAN.

The proposed development will be the second Class "A" project in Littleton and will be the first built to LEED Gold
standards. There are currently only two existing residential buildings in the Denver Metro Area built to LEED Gold
standards. It will target an actively engaged demographic with an even mix of professionals in their early-to -mid-30's
and aging boomers between 50 and 65 years old. The common interests of these residents will be walkable
entertainment and services as well as quick access to outdoor activities, trails, and open space. Approximately 51% of
the units will be one-bedroom with 59% two-bedrooms and an average unit size of 947 square feet. Each unit will be
outfitted with premium fixtures and finishes, including quartz or granite countertops with undermount sinks, and full
size washer/dryer machines. Resident parking will be within a secured above ground parking structure at a ratio of no
less than 1.5 spaces per unit. Storage spaces as well as secured bike storage will also be available on site. The
Clubhouse amenities will include a wifi café, sports and entertainment lounge, fitness center equipped with cardio and
strength training machines, and a conference room to support the business needs of residents. The property's
courtyard will feature a large, resort-style pool and spa with barbeque areas and an outdoor fire pit.

We have substantial experience building within high quality, established mixed-use neighborhoods and look forward to
working with the local community and the City of Littleton to design a product that will have a positive impact on the
city. Thank you for your attention to this request and we look forward to working with you.

Sincerely,

Andy Clay
                                                Executive Summary

·   Title work on the property indicates the existing zoning was implemented over thirty years ago. It allows non-
    conditional uses that are not in the interest of public health and welfare (see Exhibit A). Many uses conflict with
    the Littleton Corridor Study, the Comprehensive Plan and the Sterne Park Neighborhood Plan.

·   The Littleton Corridor Study explicitly states that the existing zoning "allows some commercial uses that are
    incompatible with the redevelopment plan" (see Development Catalyst Sites goal #1 of study fold-out).
    Rezoning of this parcel could not be interpreted as arbitrary and capricious but an opportunity to carry out the
    direction articulated in this study and the other guiding documents and policies.

·   Existing office vacancy within a 1 mile radius of the light rail station is 30%. The existing office space on the site
    consists of only 50% occupancy if you do not account for the ownership group occupancy.

·   A commercial project under the existing zoning would increase vehicular trips and associated impact by 35% to
    40% at a minimum compared to this application.

·   Multifamily vacancies for buildings less than 20 years old in the City of Littleton are less than 10%.

·   In the last 13 years the Denver Metro Area has observed apartment communities converted to condos and
    condos become rental communities. The 8%-10% shift from homeownership to renting in Colorado and
    throughout the U.S. reflects a large new class of non-transient renters who are not motivated to own.
    Legislation in Colorado now and in the near future makes new condo development infeasible. Residents who
    desire to live in a more dense community with walkable access to transit and retail services have limited
    ownership opportunities. The construction quality of the proposed community is more likely to be a candidate
    for condominium conversion than any currently proposed or under construction in the City of Littleton.

·   According to Apartment Insights (www.apartmentinsights.com) there is currently only one Class "A",
    unrestricted apartment community in Littleton. There are 87 in the entire Metro area.

·   A likely development that could be built under the current zoning would be a mixed-use project (50%
    commercial & 50% residential) that would allow up to 200 ­ 300 residential units (depending on size) and little
    or no public input. Alliance's proposed development represents an equal or higher economic benefit while
    taking into account the City's guiding documents and neighborhood input. Additionally, in order to attract high
    quality commercial tenants, additional economic incentives or subsidies would most likely be required.

·   Littleton Corridor Study and Guidelines identified this specific parcel as a development catalyst in 2002. The
    study identified the goal of "maximizing value" and allowing for a purely residential, "medium density"
    development. Staff and Planning Board have inferred from parts of the same study that 50 DU/acre represents
    "medium density" at this location. This application reflects 50 DU/acre.

·   Adjacent to our property line, only 132 lineal feet of the 445 lineal feet fronting Bemis neighbors are zoned for
    single family residential. The remaining 313 lineal feet is zoned Transitional allowing multifamily townhomes
    and apartments among other commercial uses. Currently, out of the ten structures along the east side of Bemis
    Street (north of Sterne Park), three are operating as businesses and seven are residential homes.

·   Alliance has revised this application several times responding to staff and area stakeholders. This amended
    application responds to the following feedback received from neighbors, the City and stakeholders:
         o Reduced unit count from 325 to 225.
         o Break the building into two separate structures ­ this application creates two separate structures and
            allows views into our courtyard and potentially through to the west.
         o Reduce Bemis St and Littleton Blvd heights to 3 stories ­ this application accomplishes this with the 4th
            story being set back so far back as to be unseen from the pedestrian street view.
       o   Move heights and density to west and southwest, away from the Courthouse ­ this application consists
           of 3 stories stepping back to four stories at the northwest corner adjacent to the courthouse, and the
           fifth story has been eliminated.

·   Impact Fees including building permits, plan review, use tax, Arapahoe County Open Space Tax, parks fee, and
    water and sewer systems development fees total over $13,000 per unit. This is double the amount within the
    City of Denver and comparable to Lone Tree, Centennial and Greenwood Village.

·   Alliance funded pedestrian improvements will enhance Sterne Park neighborhood pedestrian accessibility to the
    Courthouse and Buck Center complex as well as to Downtown Littleton and the light rail station.

·    Alliance funded park improvements will enhance the floodplain area to the south achieving the goal of
    converting it into a park as articulated in the Littleton Corridor Study (See Implementation goal #3 and
    Development Catalyst Sites goal #1 of study fold-out). Part of these funds may also be available for
    improvements or upgrades to Sterne Park.

·   The proposed project provides an opportunity for Littleton to be the first city outside of Denver proper with a
    community built to LEED Gold standards (see Exhibit C). Only two exist currently in the entire Denver Metro
    area.

·   The proposed project includes third party review during design and construction for FHA, ADA, and Title 9
    compliance assuring that the community treats all prospective residents with equality.
        EXHIBIT A

Otten Johnson Legal Opinion
      EXHIBIT B

Fiscal Benefit Analysis
Economic & Planning Systems
· Full service economic consulting firm
· Denver, Berkeley, Sacramento, Los Angeles
· Expertise
   ­ Real estate economics
   ­ Fiscal and economic impact analysis
   ­ Transit Oriented Development
   ­ Economic development
   ­ Public finance
   ­ Land use policy




                         Broadstone Littleton Station   0
EPS Scope of Work
· Retained by Alliance Residential Company
· Prepare independent estimate of project's fiscal benefits
· Major City revenues
   ­ Property tax
   ­ Sales tax
   ­ Fees and permits
   ­ School district property tax




                          Broadstone Littleton Station    1
Development Scenarios
· Existing zoning is B-2 and R-3
· Proposed Zoning Change
   ­ Planned Development Residential (PDR)
   ­ 225 apartments, 947 sq. ft. average size
   ­ $1,549/month average rent
· Existing Zoning
   ­ 50% residential 50% commercial (incl. parking structure)
   ­ 175 apartments, 800 sq. ft. average size
   ­ $1,000/month average rent
   ­ 25 live-work spaces
   ­ 9,000 sq. ft. ground level office or retail




                           Broadstone Littleton Station         2
Revenue Summary




             Broadstone Littleton Station   3
Project Demographics
· Proposed Zoning Change
   ­ Rent = 25% of household income
   ­ $1,549/month average rent
   ­ $74,400 household income (calculated)
· Existing Zoning
   ­ $1,000/month average rent
   ­ $48,500 household income (calculated)
· Demographics in existing ARC Projects
   ­ ~$50,000 for singles
   ­ $100,000+ for couples and roommates
· Littleton average household income is ~$80,500



                        Broadstone Littleton Station   4
Retail Spending and Sales Tax
· Proposed Zoning Change
   ­ $74,400 HH income = $16.7M total HH income
   ­ 35.6% spent on retail = $5.9M spending potential
   ­ $2.9M captured in Littleton (half)
   ­ $89,900 in sales tax
· Existing Zoning
   ­ $48,500 HH income = $9.7M total HH income
   ­ $3.5M spending potential
   ­ $1.7M captured in Littleton (half)
   ­ $52,000 in sales tax




                          Broadstone Littleton Station   5
Property Tax
· Proposed Zoning Change
   ­ $45.5M estimated market value
   ­ $3.6M assessed value
   ­ $21,400 Property Tax (net of existing)
   ­ $183,000 to School District (net of existing)
· Existing Zoning
   ­ $28.2M estimated market value
   ­ $2.6M assessed value
   ­ $17,100 Property Tax
   ­ $146,500 to School District




                          Broadstone Littleton Station   6
Fees and Permits
· Proposed Zoning Change
   ­ $1.9M total
   ­ One time revenue
· Existing Zoning
   ­ $1.15M
   ­ One time revenue




                        Broadstone Littleton Station   7
Other Benefits
· Downtown residential
   ­ Some additional spending in Downtown businesses
· Walkable to transit
   ­ Fewer car trips
   ­ Street activity
   ­ Less pollution than a site with no transit




                          Broadstone Littleton Station   8
                          EXHIBIT C

        LEED Durability Inspection Checklist

                               &

LEED for Low-Rise Pilot Simplified Project Checklist
(Points achieved might not be identical to the attached checklist)
                                                               Durability Inspection Checklist Template
                                                                 (for prerequisite ID 2.1 & 2.2 and credit ID 2.3)
                                                             Builder Name:                              Alliance Partners
                                                             Project Team Leader:                       Andy Clay, Alliance Partners
                                                             Home Address:                              Littleton Blvd, Littleton, CO
For each section below, list durability strategies used to help mitigate the durability risks. Where necessary, add additional rows or remove strategies that are not relevant
Refer to the Example Durability Strategies page for sample strategies that may be applicable.

The project team must indicate where the strategy is included in the drawings, specification, or scopes of work, and the responsible project team member must sign-off that
the durability strategies were incorporated into the home.

For ID 2.3, the Green Rater must initial that the strategies were verified in the home. A minimum of 18 total strategies, not including those already included as LEED for
Homes prerequisites, must be included and verified for the credit to be awarded. These strategies should be focused on medium or high-risk areas.

                                                                                                             Location in                  Sign-off by Responsible Party
                                                                                                          Drawings, Specs,                        (initial below)
                            Durability Strategies by Issue Type
                                                                                                          and/or Scopes of              Prerequisite ID 2.2     Credit ID 2.3
                                                                                                               Work                       (Builder/trade)      (Green Rater)

Exterior Water / Moisture




Interior Water / Moisture
LEED for Homes Prerequisites (remove if not applicable)
 Nonpaper-faced backer board used in all tubs, showers, and spa areas. (see ID 2.1)
 Water-resistant flooring in the kitchen, bathroom, laundry rooms, and spa areas. (see ID 2.1)
 Water-resistant flooring within 3 feet of all exterior doors. (see ID 2.1)
 Drain and drain pan installed for any tank water heaters in or over living spaces. (see ID 2.1)
 Drain and drain pan OR single-throw supply valve installed for any clothes washers in or over living
 spaces. (see ID 2.1)
 Conventional clothes dryers exhausted directly to outdoors; Condensing clothes dryer has drain and
 drain pan. (see ID 2.1)
 Whole house ventilation and local kitchen and bathroom exhaust systems that comply with ASHRAE
 Std. 62.2 (see EQ 4.1 / 5.1)




Air Infiltration
LEED for Homes Prerequisites (remove if not applicable)
 Thermal bypass inspection checklist passed (see EA 1.1 / 2.1)




Interstitial Condensation
LEED for Homes Prerequisites (remove if not applicable)
 All local exhaust systems vented directly to the outdoors. (see EQ 5.1)
 Interstitial spaces are never used to supply or return forced air. (see EA 5.1)
 Duct leakage to the outdoors limited to 6 cfm / 100 sq.ft. (see EA 1.1 / 5.1)




Pests




Heat Loss
LEED for Homes Prerequisites (remove if not applicable)
 Climate zone 4-8: Exposed concrete slab edge insulated. (see EA 1.1 / 2.1)




Ultraviolet Radiation




     US Green Building Council                                                            Page 1 of 2                                                               6/14/2013
                                                       Durability Inspection Checklist Template
                                                         (for prerequisite ID 2.1 & 2.2 and credit ID 2.3)
                                                      Builder Name:                             Alliance Partners
                                                      Project Team Leader:                      Andy Clay, Alliance Partners
                                                      Home Address:                             Littleton Blvd, Littleton, CO

Natural Disasters




Other
LEED for Homes Prerequisites (remove if not applicable)
 Refrigerant charge test conducted. (see EA 11.1)




   Builder Declaration for ID prerequisite 2.1 & 2.2

 I hereby declare and affirm to USGBC that I have evaluated this project's durability risks,     Name:
 completed the Durability Risk Evaluation Form, and incorporated appropriate durability          Title:
 measures into the design to adequately address the moderate and high risks. The
 construction drawings and specifications have been updated accordingly, and the the             Signature:
 measures were verified to be completed appropriately.
                                                                                                 Date:

   Green Rater Declaration for ID credit 2.3
                                                                                                 Name:
 I hereby declare and affirm to USGBC that all of the above durability measures were verified
 as having been installed and/or incorporated into the home and home site. This signature is     Title:
 not an endorsement of the choice of durability measures or strategies installed, nor is it a    Signature:
 validation of the quality or workmanship of the construction or installation.
                                                                                                 Date:




    US Green Building Council                                                     Page 2 of 2                                   6/14/2013
                                                                      LEED for Homes Simplified Project Checklist
                            for Homes              Builder Name:                                Alliance Partners

                                                   Project Team Leader (if different):          Andy Clay, Alliance Partners

                                                   Home Address (Street/City/State):            Littleton Blvd, Littleton, CO


Project Description:                                                                                   Adjusted Certification Thresholds
    Building type: Multi-family                                 Project type: Multi-family De            Certified: 38.0                    Gold: 68.0

        # of units: 225                       Avg. Home Size Adjustment: -7                                 Silver: 53.0                 Platinum: 83.0


     Project Point Total                                                              Final Credit Category Total Points
         Prelim: 70.5 + 15 maybe pts                Final: 15.5                          ID: 0             SS:      4             EA: 11.5                  EQ:   0
     Certification Level                                                                 LL: 0             WE:      0             MR: 0                     AE:   0
         Prelim: Gold                               Final: Not Certified                           Minimum Point Thresholds Not Met for Final Rating

                                                                                                                                              70.5    15        15.5
                    date last updated :                                                                                            Max           Project Points
                      last updated by :                                                                                           Points       Preliminary    Final
     Innovation and Design Process (ID)                               (No Minimum Points Required)                                 Max        Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. Integrated Project Planning               1.1   Preliminary Rating                                                              Prereq
                                             1.2   Integrated Project Team                                                           1        1       0           0
                                             1.3   Professional Credentialed with Respect to LEED for Homes                          1        1       0           0
                                             1.4   Design Charrette                                                                  1        1       0           0
                                             1.5   Building Orientation for Solar Design                                             1        0       0           0
2. Durability Management                     2.1   Durability Planning                                                             Prereq
  Process                                    2.2   Durability Management                                                           Prereq
                                             2.3   Third-Party Durability Management Verification                                    3        3       0           0
3.Innovative or Regional                     3.1   Innovation #1                                                                     1        1       0           0
  Design                                     3.2   Innovation #2                                                                     1        1       0           0
                                             3.3   Innovation #3                                                                     1        1       0           0
                                             3.4   Innovation #4                                                                     1        1       0           0
                                                                                                     Sub-Total for ID Category:     11        10      0           0
     Location and Linkages (LL)                                    (No Minimum Points Required)                          OR        Max        Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. LEED ND                                   1     LEED for Neighborhood Development                                    LL2-6       10        0       0           0
2. Site Selection                            2     Site Selection                                                                    2        2       0           0
3. Preferred Locations                       3.1   Edge Development                                                     LL 3.2       1        0       0           0
                                             3.2   Infill                                                                            2        2       0           0
                                             3.3   Previously Developed                                                              1        1       0           0
4. Infrastructure                            4     Existing Infrastructure                                                           1        1       0           0
5. Community Resources/                      5.1   Basic Community Resources / Transit                              LL 5.2, 5.3      1        0       0           0
     Transit                                 5.2   Extensive Community Resources / Transit                            LL 5.3         2        0       0           0
                                             5.3   Outstanding Community Resources / Transit                                         3        3       0           0
6. Access to Open Space                      6     Access to Open Space                                                              1        1       0           0
                                                                                                     Sub-Total for LL Category:     10        10      0           0
     Sustainable Sites (SS)                                         (Minimum of 5 SS Points Required)                      OR      Max        Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. Site Stewardship                          1.1   Erosion Controls During Construction                                            Prereq
                                             1.2   Minimize Disturbed Area of Site                                                   1        1       0           0
2. Landscaping                               2.1   No Invasive Plants                                                              Prereq
                                             2.2   Basic Landscape Design                                               SS 2.5       2        2       0           0
                                             2.3   Limit Conventional Turf                                              SS 2.5       3        0       1           0
                                             2.4   Drought Tolerant Plants                                              SS 2.5       2        0       1           0
                                             2.5   Reduce Overall Irrigation Demand by at Least 20%                                  6        0       0           0
3. Local Heat Island Effects                 3     Reduce Local Heat Island Effects                                                  1        1       0           0
4. Surface Water                             4.1   Permeable Lot                                                                     4        0       1           0
     Management                              4.2   Permanent Erosion Controls                                                        1        1       0           0
                                             4.3   Management of Run-off from Roof                                                   2        0       2           0
5. Nontoxic Pest Control                     5     Pest Control Alternatives                                                         2       1.5     0.5          0
6. Compact Development                       6.1   Moderate Density                                                 SS 6.2, 6.3      2        0       0           0
                                             6.2   High Density                                                      SS 6.3          3        0       0           0
                                             6.3   Very High Density                                                                 4        4       0           4
                                                                                                    Sub-Total for SS Category:      22       10.5    5.5          4




     U.S. Green Building Council                                              Page 1 of 3                                                           January 1, 2011
                                LEED for Homes Simplified Project Checklist (continued)
                                                                                                                            Max         Project Points
                                                                                                                           Points     Preliminary    Final
     Water Efficiency (WE)                                     (Minimum of 3 WE Points Required)                OR          Max     Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. Water Reuse                          1.1   Rainwater Harvesting System                                      WE 1.3        4       0       0          0
                                        1.2   Graywater Reuse System                                           WE 1.3        1       0       0          0
                                        1.3   Use of Municipal Recycled Water System                                         3       0       0          0
2. Irrigation System                    2.1   High Efficiency Irrigation System                                WE 2.3        3       3       0          0
                                        2.2   Third Party Inspection                                           WE 2.3        1       1       0          0
                                        2.3   Reduce Overall Irrigation Demand by at Least 45%                               4       0       0          0
3. Indoor Water Use                     3.1   High-Efficiency Fixtures and Fittings                                          3       1       0          0
                                        3.2   Very High Efficiency Fixtures and Fittings                                     6       4       0          0
                                                                                              Sub-Total for WE Category:    15       9       0          0
     Energy and Atmosphere (EA)                                (Minimum of 0 EA Points Required)                OR          Max     Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. Optimize Energy Performance          1.1   Performance of ENERGY STAR for Homes                                         Prereq
                                        1.2   Exceptional Energy Performance                                                34      11.5     2         11.5
7. Water Heating                        7.1   Efficient Hot Water Distribution                                               2       0       0          0
                                        7.2   Pipe Insulation                                                                1       0       0          0
11. Residential Refrigerant            11.1   Refrigerant Charge Test                                                      Prereq
     Management                        11.2   Appropriate HVAC Refrigerants                                                  1       0       0          0
                                                                                              Sub-Total for EA Category:    38      11.5     2         11.5
     Materials and Resources          (MR)                       (Minimum of 2 MR Points Required)              OR          Max     Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. Material-Efficient Framing           1.1   Framing Order Waste Factor Limit                                             Prereq
                                        1.2   Detailed Framing Documents                                       MR 1.5        1       1       0          0
                                        1.3   Detailed Cut List and Lumber Order                               MR 1.5        1       1       0          0
                                        1.4   Framing Efficiencies                                             MR 1.5        3       3       0          0
                                        1.5   Off-site Fabrication                                                           4       0       0          0
2. Environmentally Preferable           2.1   FSC Certified Tropical Wood                                                  Prereq
  Products                              2.2   Environmentally Preferable Products                                            8      2.5     3.5         0
3. Waste Management                     3.1   Construction Waste Management Planning                                       Prereq
                                        3.2   Construction Waste Reduction                                                   3       2       0          0
                                                                                              Sub-Total for MR Category:    16      9.5     3.5         0
     Indoor Environmental Quality (EQ)                     (Minimum of 6 EQ Points Required)                    OR          Max     Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. ENERGY STAR with IAP                 1     ENERGY STAR with Indoor Air Package                                           13       0       0          0
2. Combustion Venting                   2.1   Basic Combustion Venting Measures                                 EQ 1       Prereq
                                        2.2   Enhanced Combustion Venting Measures                              EQ 1         2       2       0          0
3. Moisture Control                     3     Moisture Load Control                                             EQ 1         1       0       0          0
4. Outdoor Air Ventilation              4.1   Basic Outdoor Air Ventilation                                     EQ 1       Prereq
                                        4.2   Enhanced Outdoor Air Ventilation                                               2       0       0          0
                                        4.3   Third-Party Performance Testing                                   EQ 1         1       0       0          0
5. Local Exhaust                        5.1   Basic Local Exhaust                                               EQ 1       Prereq
                                        5.2   Enhanced Local Exhaust                                                         1       0       1          0
                                        5.3   Third-Party Performance Testing                                                1       0       1          0
6. Distribution of Space                6.1   Room-by-Room Load Calculations                                    EQ 1       Prereq
  Heating and Cooling                   6.2   Return Air Flow / Room by Room Controls                           EQ 1         1       0       0          0
                                        6.3   Third-Party Performance Test / Multiple Zones                     EQ 1         2       0       2          0
7. Air Filtering                        7.1   Good Filters                                                      EQ 1       Prereq
                                        7.2   Better Filters                                                   EQ 7.3        1       0       0          0
                                        7.3   Best Filters                                                                   2       0       0          0
8. Contaminant Control                  8.1   Indoor Contaminant Control during Construction                    EQ 1         1       1       0          0
                                        8.2   Indoor Contaminant Control                                                     2       0       0          0
                                        8.3   Preoccupancy Flush                                                EQ 1         1       1       0          0
9. Radon Protection                     9.1   Radon-Resistant Construction in High-Risk Areas                   EQ 1       Prereq
                                        9.2   Radon-Resistant Construction in Moderate-Risk Areas               EQ 1         1       0       0          0
10. Garage Pollutant Protection        10.1   No HVAC in Garage                                                EQ 1        Prereq
                                       10.2   Minimize Pollutants from Garage                                EQ 1, 10.4      2       2       0          0
                                       10.3   Exhaust Fan in Garage                                          EQ 1, 10.4      1       1       0          0
                                       10.4   Detached Garage or No Garage                                     EQ 1          3       0       0          0
                                                                                              Sub-Total for EQ Category:    21       7       4          0
     Awareness and Education (AE)                              (Minimum of 0 AE Points Required)                            Max     Y/Pts Maybe   No    Y/Pts
1. Education of the                     1.1   Basic Operations Training                                                    Prereq
     Homeowner or Tenant                1.2   Enhanced Training                                                              1       1       0          0
                                        1.3   Public Awareness                                                               1       1       0          0
2. Education of Building
  Manager                               2     Education of Building Manager                                                  1       1       0          0

                                                                                              Sub-Total for AE Category:     3       3       0          0




     U.S. Green Building Council                                          Page 2 of 3                                                      January 1, 2011
                                                                      LEED for Homes Simplified Project Checklist
                                                        Addendum: Prescriptive Approach for Energy and Atmosphere (EA) Credits


                                                                                                                            Max            Project Points
Points cannot be earned in both the Prescriptive (below) and the Performance Approach (pg 2) of the EA section.            Points     Preliminary        Final
     Energy and Atmosphere (EA)                                  (No Minimum Points Required)                      OR       Max     Y/Pts Maybe     No      Y/Pts
2. Insulation                             2.1   Basic Insulation                                                           Prereq
                                          2.2   Enhanced Insulation                                                          2       0        0             0
3. Air Infiltration                       3.1   Reduced Envelope Leakage                                                   Prereq
                                          3.2   Greatly Reduced Envelope Leakage                                             2       0        0             0
                                          3.3   Minimal Envelope Leakage                                          EA 3.2     3       0        0             0
4. Windows                                4.1   Good Windows                                                               Prereq
                                          4.2   Enhanced Windows                                                             2       0        0             0
                                          4.3   Exceptional Windows                                               EA 4.2     3       0        0             0
5. Heating and Cooling                    5.1   Reduced Distribution Losses                                                Prereq
     Distribution System                  5.2   Greatly Reduced Distribution Losses                                          2       0        0             0
                                          5.3   Minimal Distribution Losses                                       EA 5.2     3       0        0             0
6. Space Heating and Cooling              6.1   Good HVAC Design and Installation                                          Prereq
     Equipment                            6.2   High-Efficiency HVAC                                                         2       0        0             0
                                          6.3   Very High Efficiency HVAC                                         EA 6.2     4       0        0             0
7. Water Heating                          7.1   Efficient Hot Water Distribution                                             2       0        0             0
                                          7.2   Pipe Insulation                                                              1       0        0             0
                                          7.3   Efficient Domestic Hot Water Equipment                                       3       0        0             0
8. Lighting                               8.1   ENERGY STAR Lights                                                         Prereq
                                          8.2   Improved Lighting                                                            2       0        0             0
                                          8.3   Advanced Lighting Package                                         EA 8.2     3       0        0             0
9. Appliances                             9.1   High-Efficiency Appliances                                                   2       0        0             0
                                          9.2   Water-Efficient Clothes Washer                                               1       0        0             0
10. Renewable Energy                      10    Renewable Energy System                                                     10       0        0             0
11. Residential Refrigerant              11.1   Refrigerant Charge Test                                                    Prereq
  Management                             11.2   Appropriate HVAC Refrigerants                                                1       0        0             0
                                                                                              Sub-Total for EA Category:    38      11.5      2          11.5




     U.S. Green Building Council                                          Page 3 of 3                                                       January 1, 2011
                                                                              ZONING COMPARISON CHART - BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION
DETAILS                                       MAX. ALLOWED UNDER EXISTING ZONING                                      EXISTING                         PROPOSED
ADDRESS                                       2100 & 2120 W. Littleton Blvd.                                          5759 S. Bemis Street             Area including 2100 & 2120 W. Littleton Blvd. & 5759 S. Bemis Street
ACERAGE                                       2.94                                                                    0.14                             4.5 (includes 1.41 railroad right-of-way parcel)
ZONING                                        B-2 EXISTING ZONING                                                     R-3 EXISTING ZONING              PROPOSED PD PLAN RESIDENTIAL
USES ALLOWED                                  Per B-2, Residential, Commercial, Retail Mix                            Single Family Detached           Multifamily Residential
MINIMUM OPEN SPACE                            20%                                                                     50%                              30%
PARKING RATIO                                 Various Per B-2                                                         2 Per Dwelling unit              1.5 Per Dwelling Unit
MINIMUM SET BACK                              0 Feet                                                                  20 Feet                          Varies between 15 Feet and 30 Feet
MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT                       Not limited by zone district                                            30 Feet                          48 Feet
MAXIMUM FAR                                   2:1                                                                     N/A                              N/A
MAXIMUM DENSITY                               46 to 69 (based on unit size)                                           6.7                              50
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT                          5-story office building development                                     no change to existing building   Market Rate Apartment Building
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT DETAILS                  mix of commercial and retail                                            single family detached home      225 Unit Luxury Multifamily Apartment Community
PROJECTED PARKING REQUIREMENT                 586 spaces                                                              2 spaces                         338 spaces
PROJECTED POPULATION                          902 employees                                                           3 residents                      404 residents
PROJECTED POPULATION OF SCHOOL AGE CHILDREN   n/a                                                                     1 child                          65 children
TRAFFIC GENERATED                             2,050 daily vehicle trips                                               9.5 daily vehicle trips          1,346 daily vehicle trips
ADDITIONAL PARK LAND REQUIRED                 n/a                                                                     $0                               $573,750
AVAILABILITY OF SERVICES                      8" sewer tap and 3" water tap                                           N/A                              8" sewer tap and 3" water tap
PROPOSED ZONING COMPARISON CHART:
Zoning Requirements Existing Zoning District:                                   Proposed Zoning Dist.:
Uses                Various Per B-2, Single family detached in R-3              Multifamily Residential
Min. Open Space     20% B-2, 50% R-3                                            30%
Parking Ratios      Various Per B-2, 2 per dwelling unit in R-3                 1.5 per unit
Min. Bldg Setbacks  0' B-2, 20' R-3                                             Varies 15'-30'
Max. Bldg Height    Not Limited for B-2, 30' for R-3                            48'
Max. F.A.R.         2:1 for B-2 and N/A for R-3                                 N/A
Max. Density        N/A for B-2, 6.7/acre                                       50/acre

PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT DETAILS:

1. Under the existing zoning district for the B-2 parcel (2100 and 2120 W. Littleton Blvd.), Alliance
would propose a 5-story, 100% commercial building. Under that scenario, the following set of data
would be projected:

        Building Calculations: 379,124 SF
        75,825 SF x 5 stories = 379,124 SF
        13,124 SF of retail
        156,000 SF of office
        210,000 SF of parking (603 spaces total or approx. 120 per floor)

        Projected parking requirement: 586 spaces
        Retail - one space per 200 SF = 66 spaces
        Office - one space per 300 SF = 520 spaces

        Projected population: 902 employees
        902 employees = 150 SF per employee at 80% building efficiency (169,142 x 80% = 135,314/150)

        Projected population of school-age children: N/A

        Traffic generation: 2,050 daily vehicle trips****

        Additional park land required: N/A

        Availability of services:
        Based on the SF of our proposed development under the B-2 zoning scenario, we would
        anticipate an 8" sewer tap and a 3" water tap.
2. Under the existing zoning district for the R-3 parcel (5759 S. Bemis St.), Alliance would keep the
existing building, a single family residence. Under that scenario, the following set of data would be
projected:

        Projected population: 3

        Projected population of school-age children: 1

        Traffic generation: 9.5 daily vehicle trips
        9.5 X 1 = 9.5 daily vehicle trips***

        Additional park land required: $0
        Since Alliance would not do anything with the R-3 lot, there would be no park impact fees
        generated.

        Availability of services: N/A

3. Under the proposed PD - residential zone district (the combined B-2 and R-3 parcels), Alliance is
proposing a 225 unit, 4 story apartment building with an internal above-grade parking structure and a
basement condition on a portion of the site. Under that scenario, the following set of data would be
projected:

        Building Calculations:
        53,269 SF x 4 = 213,075 SF
        213,075/947 average unit size = 225 units

        Projected parking requirements: 338
        225 units x 1.5 = 338 residential parking spaces

        Projected population: 404 residents
        225 units x 41% = 92 1 bedrooms averaging 1.5 individuals per unit
        225 units x 59% = 133 2 bedrooms averaging 2 individual per unit

        Projected population of school-age children: 65 school age children
        .29 x 225 = 73

        Traffic generation: 1,346 daily vehicle trips****

        Additional park land required: $573,750
        The city code requires payment of park fees in the amount of $2,550 per unit for multifamily
        residential.

        Availability of city services:
        Based on the SF of our development under the proposed PD Residential zoning scenario, we
        would anticipate an 8" sewer tap and a 3" water tap.
Sources:
*Obrinksy, Ph. D Mark and Stein, Debra. NMHC White Papers "Overcoming Opposition to Mutlifamily
Rental Housing", 2007.
** Transit Cooperative Research Program, TCRP Report 128, Effects of TOD Housing, Population, and
Travel, 2008.
*** Edwards, Mary. Traffic Impact Analysis, Community Guide to Development Impact Analysis.
**** Felsburg, Holt, Ullevig-
                                BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION PD PLAN REZONING
                                               Case No. PDP12-0003
                                                 August 12, 2013


                                         Declaration of Public Policy for Rezoning

The Declaration of Public Policy for Rezoning states that the official zoning map should not be amended unless the
amendment is consistent with the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan, and promotes the general welfare of
the community. Alliance's request to rezone the 4.5 acres site known as 2100 & 2120 W. Littleton Boulevard (currently
zoned B-2 Commercial Business) and 5759 S Bemis Street (currently zoned R-3 Residential) to a Residential use Planned
Development will uphold the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan, and promote the general welfare of the
community in the following ways:

Community-Wide Goals & Policies of the Comprehensive Plan
Goal 1: Preserve Littleton's unique identity by protecting historic structures and emphasizing Littleton's distinct social
and economic heritage with consideration giving to:
A. View preservation;
B. Landscape preservation;
C. Topography;
D. Human qualities;
E. Encouragement of variety of housing stock and types of people.
MEETS GOAL:
        a. View Preservation ­ The current B-2 zoning contains no height limits or setbacks and has a FAR
        of 2:1. Alliance's proposed PD Plan will set an overall height limit of 49' feet. Setbacks will range from 15' to
        30' feet depending on the elevation and floor level (see PD Plan cover sheet for exact measurements). To
        avoid the building reading like a long wall along the west elevation, Alliance has redesigned and broken the
        building into two distinct masses. The building fronting Littleton Boulevard will be of a lower scale in order to
        preserve solar access to the street and not distract from the historic Courthouse. By breaking the building into
        two distinct masses, views west of the mountains and Downtown Littleton will be better preserved from the
        vantage points along Bemis Street.

        b. Landscape Preservation ­ The current site is comprised of grasses and trees. Alliance will make best
        efforts to save and relocate trees during construction. Street trees will be planted at maximum 35'
        intervals along both street frontages. Bemis Street will receive a continuous tree lawn that is a minimum
        of 8' wide. The overall landscaping shall be intensive and provide year round interest.

        c. Topography ­ Due to the sloping grade change on the west portion of the site, Alliance has the
        opportunity to utilize the grade change and create walk-out basement level units that can add additional
        residential units without increasing the overall height of the building. The units will have direct access to
        the planned trail that runs on the west portion of the site and will create great pedestrian connectivity.

        d. Human Qualities ­ The proposed development will attract residents to Downtown Littleton who will be
        able to access all the amenities that historic Main Street has to offer without getting in a car and adding
        to the parking burden. The development will be designed to LEED Gold guidelines.

        e. Encouragement of variety of housing stock and types of people - The planned "Class A" multifamily
        apartment community will attract young professionals, emerging families, and empty nesters with a unit
        mix of 41% one-bedrooms and 59% two-bedrooms. There are no "Class A" apartment communities in
                                                                                                                 1|Page
        Downtown Littleton that are over 50 units in size. With only one Class A rental option available in all of Littleton,
        there is a strong demand for a higher density luxury rental community within walking distance to Downtown
        Littleton. The rezoning application includes parameters that will produce a finished luxury, "Class A" product
        comparable to what Alliance has built in comparable locations within the Denver Metro Area.

Goal 2: Develop Littleton's economic independence and reemphasize Downtown as Littleton's economic and social
center.
MEETS GOAL:
        A 225-unit residential apartment community within walking distance to Historic Main Street will develop
        Littleton's economic dependence and reemphasize Downtown as Littleton's economic and social center.
        Future residents will dine, shop, and enjoy entertainment in Downtown Littleton. Approximately 400
        residents of a target demographic with statistically higher discretionary income will walk the short 500
        feet distance to historic Downtown Littleton to support the local business community without adding an
        additional burden to local parking. Additionally, current zoning would require retail/commercial space that could
        diminish Downtown Littleton as an economic and social center. Although it was stated that the current office
        building located on the site has 11 businesses and is 100% leased, it should be noted that the building is 50%
        owner occupied. The current owner continues the market to space, but due to the lack of demand he continues
        to utilize the space rather than have it sit vacant. An economic analysis was completed which highlights the
        commercial vacancy rate within a one mile radius of the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station is approximately
        30%. Rather than create addition office space, the site could generate more revenue for the City of Littleton
        as a residential development (see attached economic analysis). Proposed rents will range from $1,150 to $1,899
        a month and will require average household incomes of $74,400, assuming 25% of income is spend on rent

Goal 3: Provide adequate public transportation, both within Littleton itself and as links to other communities in the
metropolitan area.
MEETS GOAL:
        The proximity of the site to the Downtown Littleton light rail station will encourage use of public transportation
        among residents. Rather than traveling via car, our residents will be able to take advantage of the convenience
        of the light rail station when commuting to other communities within the metropolitan area or traveling within
        Littleton itself. The Regional Demand Analysis & TOD Market Analysis produced by the City of Denver in 2008
        forecasted the average household per station along the southwest corridor would be 765 between 2005 and
        2030. Station areas along the Southeast and Central lines have exceeded initial baseline projections due to land
        availability within the station areas. Due to lack of developable land within station areas the Southwest line has
        yet to approach densities anywhere near the projected demand. While 700 units at Littleton Station may not be
        attainable, this application provides an opportunity to increase density at this station in a strategic and effective
        way.

Goal 4: Acquire and maintain sufficient park, recreation land, open space and trails to maintain a proper balance
between developed and recreational land use and to make recreational opportunities easily available to all residents.
MEETS GOAL:
       Our site will provide not less than 30% unobstructed open space, but will also contain a trail connection on the
       land adjacent to the west elevation of our building ensuring recreational opportunities are easily available to all
       residents. The intent is for the trail running on our property to link up with the proposed trail that parallel to the
       east of the rail road tracks. During the development process Alliance will also work with the City to pursue ways
       to enhance a portion of the floodplain for recreational use enjoyed by all residents in the area. Residents of our
       proposed project will also enjoy easily available recreational opportunities provided by the Douglas H. Buck
       Recreation center located just north of the property on W. Powers Avenue.

Goal 5: Preserve existing neighborhood values while encouraging any new development to make the most efficient
use of land, resulting in the highest possible standard of living and the best use of natural resources.
MEETS GOAL:
                                                                                                                 2|Page
        The building design will take into account the most efficient use of the 4.5 acre site. The parking structure will be
        completely enclosed by the building and therefore not visible from the street. Other design elements that will
        result in the highest possible standard of living and best use of natural resources includes; providing historic
        views, mountain views, horizontal emphasis, and interface of indoor and outdoor spaces. The proposed project
        will also preserve existing neighborhood values sited in the Sterne Park Neighborhood plan, which will be
        expanded upon later in this narrative. LEED Gold guidelines from the USGBC will insure the community is
        designed to retain value and be environmentally sustainable (see attached LEED durability checklist).

Goal 6: Reduce community and individual property loss from flooding through better storm drainage planning and
improvement of existing drainage facilities.
MEETS GOAL:
        The proposed project will capture the site runoff and convey the runoff to a central water quality pond. Runoff
        from the water quality pond will be released to the existing storm drain facilities adjacent to the site. Alliances'
        team has worked closely with the City of Littleton Engineering to control the storm release, so that runoff from
        the proposed development passes through the adjacent storm facilities prior to the peak flow time of
        concentration within the adjacent facilities.

Goal 7: Promote and maintain an attractive and healthful living environment for present and future Littleton
residents.
MEETS GOAL:
        Benefits of present residents:
           · Alliance is proposing to install a traffic signal at the intersection of W Littleton Boulevard and S Bemis
                Street which will greatly improve the safety of pedestrian and vehicular circulation. Sterne Park
                residents will gain improved pedestrian access across Littleton Boulevard to the Buck Rec Center and to
                Downtown Littleton.
           · Alliance will widen the sidewalk along the W Alamo Avenue Bridge. This was noted as a neighborhood
                concern, as the sidewalk is currently too narrow and becomes un-usable in the winter with excessive
                snow accumulation.
           · Alliance will provide $573,750 in park impact fees that could be used to enhance the flood plain located
                to the south of the site and also enhance Sterne Park amenities.
           · Alliance will build a trail to the south and west of the site, which current residents can utilize to access
                Downtown Littleton
           · View preservation west through the break in the building mass along Bemis Street and along the west
                elevation.
        Benefit to future residents:
           · Residents at the proposed project will be able to enjoy an attractive and healthful living environment.
           · Residents will have access to historic Downtown Littleton for shopping and entertainment
           · Residents will be encouraged to utilize the public transportation as they will be in walking distance to
                the Downtown Littleton light rail station and bus stop.
           · Residents will be close to ample outdoor space for their recreational enjoyment given the proximity to
                Sterne Park and the S. Platte River Trail system.
           · Residents will be future Littleton home buyers.
           · The project shall include at least 1,200 square feet in the area of Bemis Street and Littleton Boulevard
                of retail café or similar neighborhood scale retail and will be accentuated with additional outdoor
                patio space. The space will be actively marketed by a commercial brokerage firm for at least three
                years from opening. At any time the space is not leased it may be used as a private amenity to the
                apartment residents. The space may also be reserved at the property owner's sole discretion to
                accommodate community or neighborhood meetings and gatherings.




                                                                                                                 3|Page
Goal 8: Encourage prudent conservation measures that will project and assure Littleton's air, water, energy, and land
resources for the future.
MEETS GOAL:
        The proposed project will be built to LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Gold design
        standards and will incorporate the latest design goals to ensure sustainable development. Participation in the
        LEED process demonstrates leadership, innovation, environmental stewardship, and social responsibility. LEED
        provides building owners with the tools they need to immediately impact their buildings performance and
        bottom line, while providing healthy indoor spaces for a building's occupants. LEED certified buildings are
        designed to reduce waste sent to landfills, conserve energy and water, be healthier and safer for occupants,
        and reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions.

Housing Policies
Policy 6: Prohibit discrimination in housing by continuing to enforce fair housing laws.
MEETS POLICY:
        Alliance Residential Company is committed to full compliance with Fair Housing laws which prohibit
        discrimination in housing because of race, color, national origin, religion, gender, familial status and disability.
        Alliance also complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable accommodations
        for persons with disabilities. Reasonable is defined as: modifications to an apartment home or common area at
        the resident's expense if the modification is necessary for the disabled person to enjoy use of the apartment
        home and community. Where it is reasonable, the manager of the apartment community may permit
        modification and changes to be made if the disabled person agrees to restore the property to its original
        condition upon leaving the property. Examples of such modifications would be the installation of handrails or
        special door-opening devices, the installation of special signal devices to assist a hearing impaired person, or the
        reservation of a handicapped parking space for a person who must use a wheelchair for mobility. Alliance hires
        a third party consulting service to review all construction documents and perform site visits to verify the
        compliance with ADA, FHA, and Title 9.

Policy 11: Encourage known energy efficient construction techniques in all types of housings.
MEETS POLICY:
        The proposed development will be designed to LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Gold
        guidelines and will incorporate the latest design goals to ensure a sustainable, energy efficient development.
        There are only two LEED Gold certified residential apartment buildings in the entire Metro Denver area. This
        would be the first LEED Gold building in Littleton, including those projects that are currently under construction
        or proposed.

Land Use Policies
Policy 3: New development in the interior of established neighborhoods, not adjacent to arterial streets, should
respect the existing densities and land uses of the neighborhoods in order that character is well preserved.
MEETS POLICY:
        Alliance believes that multifamily residential is an appropriate transitional use. Based on comments received
        from the neighborhood and staff, Alliance has reduced the development from 325 units to 225 units, so the
        lesser building mass and scale will better preserve the existing character of the neighborhood. Alliance is
        committed to continue communication with the neighborhood through the site plan process and during
        construction.

Policy 8: Environmentally sensitive areas, such as floodplain, steep slopes, etc., shall be protected from development
in order to prevent adverse effect to these areas.
DOES NOT CONFLICT:
        The floodplain to the south of the site will remain protected from the development.



                                                                                                                 4|Page
Policy 9: The City shall continue to encourage that energy and environmental concerns be taken into consideration
with all new residential and commercial developments.
MEETS POLICY:
         The proposed project will be built to LEED Gold guidelines and will incorporate the latest design goals to ensure
         a sustainable, energy efficient development.

Transportation Policies
Policy 1: Improve transportation facilities and traffic controls to provide safe and efficient traffic circulation.
MEETS POLICY:
        Alliance is proposing to install a traffic signal at the corner of W. Littleton Boulevard and S. Bemis Street. During
        meetings with the neighborhood residents voiced concerns regarding how dangerous it is to try and cross
        Littleton Boulevard at S. Bemis Street. The majority of feedback received was how residents would welcome a
        traffic signal, which would make the intersection much safer and improve both vehicular and pedestrian traffic
        circulation.

Policy 2: Provide traffic controls on internal residential and collector streets to improve safety and to maintain proper
levels of traffic speed and volume.
MEETS POLICY:
         Feedback from the neighborhood residents has caused us to pursue the option of working with the City to install
         a `No Right Turn' sign when exiting our proposed parking garage so residents would be forced to turn left and
         head north to W. Littleton Boulevard. There will also be a built up curb that would make right turns very
         inconvenient. This would help assure the local neighborhood that traffic volume of cars traveling south on S.
         Bemis Street would not dramatically increase due to our proposed development. We will also design the
         entrance/exit in a way that will prohibit cars traveling north on Bemis to enter the development by turning left.
         All access to the development will be right turn only access when traveling south on Bemis Street from Littleton
         Boulevard. Another solution recommend by staff to reduce traffic impacts was to reduce the total unit count.
         Alliance responded to this recommendation and believes the reduction of units from 325 to 225 will also help
         reduce the potential traffic along Bemis Street. Additionally, Alliance will implement measures to reduce
         southbound traffic on Bemis Street to include verification by staff that the residential lease agreement
         includes provisions to discourage resident vehicle access to the site from the south via Bemis Street, or exit
         the site southbound on Bemis Street. Enforcement of the lease provision is the sole responsibility of the
         Developer. Except, however, that no residential lease agreement entered into by the Developer shall create
         any third party beneficiary in the City or any other party, and the Developer shall not be liable to the City or
         any other party for the Developer's failure to enforce any residential lease agreement.


Policy 5: Limit direct access on arterial streets to preserve the safety and traffic carrying capabilities of these
roadways.
        See response to Policy 2.

Urban Design Policies
Policy 4: The City should strengthen the identity of entrances into Littleton.
MEETS POLICY.
        The proposed project would serve as an additional identification element to welcome residents to Downtown
        Littleton while encouraging an active pedestrian presence. The corner elements of the building mass along
        Littleton Blvd. are required to be highly articulated in materials and details even as they are subdued in mass.


Downtown Neighborhood Plan
Policy LU-10: Development adjacent to the identified iconic structures should respect and not detract from their
prominence;

                                                                                                                 5|Page
Policy LU-10a: Require that the height, scale, building placement, and other design elements of new construction,
expansion, or other property changes respect and do not overwhelm iconic structures. Employ techniques such as
building setbacks and step-backs for upper stories, and further detail that direction in the Downtown Design
Standards and Guidelines.
MEETS POLICY:
        It is important for the development to not detract from the prominence of the historic Courthouse which is an
        iconic structure. The development has been divided into two building masses. The building mass across from the
        historic courthouse is a lower scale mass, with majority of density being relegated to the southern part of the
        site. Brick will be incorporated at the northeast corner of the building façade that respectfully matches the
        courthouse but does not detract from its prominence. The low scale building mass directly across from the
        courthouse is required to step back significantly after the third story. The resultant mass will accord due
        deference to the historic structure and will also preserve solar access for the street.


Policy LU-12: Development in areas that are outside of Downtown but immediately adjacent to Downtown gateways
should be planned with consideration of their proximity to Downtown and their potential role and impact on
Downtown. The four gateways are located at Main Street/Littleton Boulevard, Main Street/Alamo/Santa Fe Drive,
Prince Street/Santa Fe Drive, and Downtown Littleton light rail station;
Policy LU-12a: Plan new development immediately adjacent to Downtown gateways so that they improve connections
to Downtown, function as part of a gateway to Downtown, follow the same design standards, and are consistent with
the Downtown Neighborhood Plan.
MEETS POLICY:
        The western building façade faces and engages with Littleton Downtown and should effectively respond to the
        Downtown area in scale and proportion. This is where the tallest elements of the building design are located.
        The overall building mass is broken up into two building masses which will provide respite to the long facade.
        Furthermore, the two building masses will be sub divided into several sub masses imposing upon the façade a
        scale more reminiscent of a typical Downtown street front with varying planes and parapet heights implying
        several buildings rather than one long one.

        In order to create a development that is engaged and connected with the larger neighborhood, it is vitally
        important to make real connection to the pedestrian network with active ground floor spaces. To this end, the
        parking garage has been surrounded on all sides by dwelling units, thus preventing a large dead mass that
        usually results from an exposed parking garage. The ground floor units all around the building will connect to the
        pedestrian network creating a real connection with Downtown, enhancing safety, and fostering social
        interaction.

Sterne Park Neighborhood Goals
Goal 1: Preserve the unique character of the neighborhood and general "quality of life" aspects, especially the mix of
architectural styles, mature trees, and quiet atmosphere of the residential areas.
MEETS GOAL:
        The building design will take into account the existing architectural styles and quiet atmosphere of the
        residential area. The elevation fronting Bemis Street will step back after the third floor to respond to the
        adjacent residential area. This in turn will create a pedestrian feel, look, and relationship to the neighboring
        residences. Walkout residences on the first floor along Bemis, Littleton Boulevard, and the west side of the
        building will additionally establish a pedestrian scale and feel. The project will have an 8 foot tree lawn on the
        east side of S. Bemis Street. To the greatest extent possible, we will preserve mature trees on the property or
        replace any trees that must be removed during construction. Our property management team will be on site or
        on call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to prevent noise violations per the City of Littleton's regulations on that
        matter. Additionally, the interior courtyard will reduce noise impact on Bemis neighbors. Alliance has responded
        to comments from City staff and neighbors by reducing the size and scale of the project. We feel the reduction
        in scale conforms to the neighborhood given the transitional nature of this site. Alliance believes the installation
                                                                                                                6|Page
        of a traffic signal will address any traffic loading issues on Bemis Street. It is also very likely that many of the
        residents will utilize light rail to commute to work. Alliance believes the proposed residential development
        will better preserve the character of the neighborhood more than a use-by-right development which would
        be built on the site today.

Goal 2: Improve transportation facilities and traffic controls only to the extent necessary to improve safety and to
provide good traffic circulation within the neighborhood.
MEETS GOAL:
        A traffic study was conducted which will address traffic controls and provide recommendations to improve
        traffic circulation within the neighborhood. Alliance is proposing to install a traffic signal at the intersection of W
        Littleton Boulevard and S Bemis Street. The improved safety of the Bemis/W. Littleton intersection will
        encourage more residents west of the development to walk Downtown, rather than take their cars to avoid the
        difficult and sometimes dangerous intersection. We have positioned the entry/exit into our parking garage well
        to the south of the W. Littleton Boulevard with the hopes that there will be enough space on S. Bemis Street to
        accommodate everyone leaving the garage to turn left and head north on S. Bemis Street.

Goal 3: Prohibit encroachment of commercial uses into established residential areas by limiting such uses to existing
commercial districts such as Littleton Boulevard.
DOES NOT CONFLICT:
        A rezoning application has been submitted to allow for residential use on a site that was zoned for both
        residential (5759 Bemis) and B-2 commercial (2100 and 2120 W Littleton). The potential retail space
        recommended by staff will be located at the corner of Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street.

Goal 4: Preserve existing parks and open space and encourage new or expanded recreational areas to be developed to
provide natural, passive recreation opportunities.
DOES NOT CONFLICT:
        There are no existing parks and or open space on the current site. There is a large flood plain to the south of
        the site, which will remain. However, we would like to propose improved access to the flood plain land as a
        potential way to offset our park impact fees, so residents and neighbors may better enjoy the open space.

Goal 5: Improve enforcement of the City's environmental codes to assure neighborhood preservation through good
maintenance, adherence to noise ordinance, and crime prevention.
MEETS GOAL:
        Alliance Residential will not only develop and build the project, but will manage the project upon completion.
        Alliance is the 15th largest management company in the U.S. and our size is a testament to our scope and depth
        of industry knowledge. The on-site staff will monitor and oversee the continued maintenance of the property.
        We can ensure adherence to noise ordinances through our lease agreements and prior to signing a lease, all
        potential residents must pass the necessary background and credit checks.

Transportation Policies
Policy 1: That traffic controls in internal residential and collector streets be maintained or improved to improve safety
and to prevent further increases in speed and volume of traffic.
MEETS POLICY:
        Feedback from the neighborhood residents has caused us to pursue the option of working with the City to install
        a `No Right Turn' sign when exiting our proposed parking garage so residents would be forced to turn left and
        head north to W. Littleton Boulevard. There will also be a built up curb that would make right turns very
        inconvenient. This would help assure the local neighborhood that traffic volume of cars traveling south on S.
        Bemis Street would not dramatically increase due to our proposed development. We will also design the
        entrance/exit in a way that will prohibit cars traveling north on Bemis to enter the development by turning left.
        All access to the development will be right turn only access when traveling south on Bemis Street from Littleton
        Boulevard. Another solution recommend by staff to reduce traffic impacts was to reduce the total unit count.
                                                                                                                   7|Page
       Alliance responded to this recommendation and believes the reduction of units from 325 to 225 will also help
       reduce the potential traffic along Bemis Street. Additionally, Alliance will implement measures to reduce
       southbound traffic on Bemis Street to include verification by staff that the residential lease agreement
       includes provisions to discourage resident vehicle access to the site from the south via Bemis Street, or exit
       the site southbound on Bemis Street. Enforcement of the lease provision is the sole responsibility of the
       Developer. Except, however, that no residential lease agreement entered into by the Developer shall create
       any third party beneficiary in the City or any other party, and the Developer shall not be liable to the City or
       any other party for the Developer's failure to enforce any residential lease agreement.

Land Policies
Policy 1: That development of commercial uses south of Littleton Boulevard, beyond that which is presently zoned
commercial, in residential areas of the neighborhood, be prohibited.
DOES NOT CONFLICT:
        The site is currently zoned B2 and R-3 residential and we are requesting a residential use Planned Development.

Policy 2: That emphasis in the decision-making process be placed on the preservation of the neighborhood as a sound,
desirable residential area.
MEETS POLICY:
        Alliance is committed to continue communicating with the neighborhood through the design and construction
        process. The process to finalize the architectural, site and landscape design portions of the subsequent site
        development plan shall include adjoining property owners and the Planning Board. Any review or
        recommendations resulting from this process will be advisory only and may not supersede the discretion of
        City planning staff in reviewing and approving any site development plan submitted under the Broadstone at
        Littleton Planned Development plan. Goals of the review shall include, but not be limited to:

       a.      The structure appropriate respects the importance of the historic courthouse located directly north of
               the site and while providing a gateway into downtown

       b.      The structure is to be integrated into the site, context and pattern of downtown and Littleton
               Boulevard by differentiating portions of the building's mass; increasing projections and recesses and
               varying window styles and patterns.

       c.      Completion of the west side of Bemis Street with respect to transitioning from the single family
               homes on the east side of the street and creating a signature entrance to the Sterne Park
               neighborhood.

       d.      Integration of the public gathering space described below into the northeast corner of the building.

       e.      Creating an appropriate landscape design for the riparian area; integrating the structure into the site;
               creating a pleasing public trail out of the emergency access easement.


Code Enforcement Policies
Policy 1:That the environmental code adopted by the City, which requires land owners to maintain the landscaping on
rental property, including renter-occupied, single-family dwellings, be strongly enforced to preserve the well-
maintained character of the neighborhood and to protect adjacent property owners from adverse impacts of poor
maintenance.
MEETS POLICY:
        Alliance Residential Company's management team will have maintenance staff on site 7 days a week to ensure
        the property is well maintained. In addition, a professional landscaping company will be hired to provide
        ongoing landscaping upkeep of the property.

                                                                                                             8|Page
Policy 2: That a concerted, intensified effort should be taken to control vandalism.
MEETS POLICY:
        Alliance Residential Company will have property management staff on site during regular business hours. After
        regular business hours, a security guard will monitor the site. As a courtesy patrol, Alliance will also offer a free
        or discounted unit to one or two local police officers who can live on site and assist with security. The property
        will also have access control key fobs, alarm systems, and video monitoring.

Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study
1C1: Massing/Height/Scale Goal: To moderate scale changes between adjacent lots.
1C1.2: Building form next to Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street should be a maximum of three stories, stepping up
in height away from the building.
MEETS GOAL:
         Alliance has redesigned our building based on comments received from the City staff and neighborhood. We are
         proposing three stories along Littleton, stepping back in height 20' on floor 3, 40' on floor 4 and have
         eliminated the fifth story. Along Bemis Street we are also proposing three stories, stepping back in height 25'
         on floor 3, 45' on floor 4, and have eliminated the fifth story.

1C3: Architectural character Goals: The architectural character should complement the existing historic architecture
of this subarea and to create buildings that provide human scale, interest, and variation.
MEETS Goal:
         Due to feedback from staff and the neighborhood, Alliance has adjusted the architectural design so as to better
         complement the existing historic character of the Courthouse and neighborhood. Similar color brick that
         matches the Courthouse will be used on the northeast corner of the north building mass. Also, instead of using
         only flat roofs, pitched and sloped roof elements will be strategically integrated into the building design. Direct
         access to sidewalks and pathways from ground level units will encourage an active lifestyle, foster social
         interactions and enhance safety.

1C4: Materials/Color Goal: To relate new construction to that of existing construction through the use of similar scale
elements and to use materials that conveys a sense of quality, permanence, and care.
MEETS GOAL:
       The primary building masses shall be broken up into smaller secondary masses that create a more residential
       scale with organized rhythm on the facades. Overall, brick, masonry and cast stone masonry materials shall
       constitute 35% of all exterior building materials, not counting openings. The color palette will be warm hued and
       will draw inspiration from surrounding historic context. By building to LEED Gold guidelines quality and
       permanence of the building will be ensured.

2A1 Goal 1: To terminate the view from Alamo Avenue looking east in an attractive way.
2A1 Goal 2: To present an attractive west façade to the light rail station and Downtown.
2A1.2: Building mass is preferred at the intersection of Littleton Boulevard and the railroad line to emphasize a
gateway to the Littleton Boulevard Corridor.
MEETS GOAL:
       Alliance has broken the building into two distinct masses that will present an attractive west façade to the light
       rail station and Downtown. Highly articulated bay or other form breaks long the building mass will serve as a
       culmination of axial view from eastbound Alamo Avenue.

2A2: Vehicular access and parking Goal: To minimize the view of parking from Littleton Boulevard, Alamo Avenue, and
the Downtown light rail stop.
2A2.1: At grade parking lots and/or above grade parking structures should not extend along the entire length or
majority of the site boundary that faces the light rail stop.

2A2.2: Parking lots or above grade parking structures should not extend along the Littleton Boulevard Frontage.
                                                                                                                 9|Page
MEETS GOAL:
      Alliance will have a fully wrapped parking garage that will not be visible from the street. The garage will not
      extend along the west elevation of the site or along Littleton Boulevard.

2A3: Pedestrian circulation and access Goal: To make easy and attractive pedestrian connections to the light rail stop
and Downtown.
MEETS GOAL:
       Alliance will add a trail that runs to the south and west of the site creating pedestrian circulation from Bemis
       Street through the open space and around the site to the sidewalk along Littleton Boulevard and Alamo Avenue.
       Alliance will widen the sidewalk along the Alamo Bridge to improve pedestrian access to the light rail stop and
       Downtown. The addition of a traffic signal will also make it safer and easier to cross Littleton Boulevard at Bemis
       Street.

2C1 Massing and Height Goal: To reflect the scale and height of the adjacent neighborhood and historic Courthouse
and to maintain a two to three story edge to Littleton Boulevard, particularly along the south side to provide more sun
exposure to the street.
2C1.1: Higher building forms should be located at the southwest and west portions of the site stepping down toward
Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street. No building shall exceed the height of the Courthouse, 81 feet.
MEETS GOAL:
         Alliance has broken the building into two distinct masses so the west elevation will no longer be a 500 foot wall
         that may overpower the importance of the Courthouse. The building has been designed with more aggressive
         step backs along Littleton and Bemis, with the majority of the higher building forms located at the southwest
         and west portions of the site. We are proposing three stories along Bemis and Littleton, stepping back in
         height 20'-25' on floor 3, 40'- 45' on floor 4 and have eliminated the fifth story. The lower scale mass along
         Littleton Boulevard will preserve solar access to the street and will not detract from the Courthouse.

2C1.2: The building along Bemis Street should respect the scale and pattern of the houses across the street through
such design strategies as the articulation of building form, column/pier spacing, window pattern, and similar
approaches.
MEETS GOAL:
        By breaking the building into two distinct masses the design is able to better respect the scale and pattern of the
        eight houses/businesses across the street on Bemis.

February 2002 Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study Folded Map: Identifies the Arapahoe County Sheriff's Facility site as
a Development Catalyst Site
       Alliance is proposing the highest and best use for this property. The site was identified as a Development
       Catalyst Site and it was highlighted that the site is the closest redevelopment site to the Littleton Downtown
       Light Rail Station. The design guidelines of the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study recommend residential
       development at a density of 50 units per acre. At 225 units, our project would yield 50 dwellings units per
       acre. By reducing the size and scale of our project, Alliance has designed a project that will complement the
       scale of the historic Courthouse.


COMPLIANCE WITH PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
Intent: The Planned Development District (PD) District is hereby created to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare by allowing more flexible development, based upon a comprehensive, integrated plan. For the
purpose of applying certain regulations and standards, and to insure maximum flexibility, the PD District is divided
into subdistrict designations, listed below, based on the primary land use on all or a portion of the land covered by a
general PD Plan. By creating these subdistricts, the Council recognizes that all standards and regulations do not apply
uniformly to all land uses. These subdistricts may exist singly or in combination on any approved general PD Plan,
provided that the specific standards and regulations applicable to the respective subdistricts are met.
                                                                                                              10 | P a g e
Application and Intent: Further, in the application of this Section it is the intent of Council to:
1. Encourage more creative and effective use of land and public or private services, and to accommodate changes in
land development technology so that the resulting economies benefit the community.
       The proposed project and our associated park fees will encourage the City to enhance the flood plain to the
        south of the site. The flood plain is an area of land that would greatly benefit from a more creative and effective
        use. It is our hope that park-like enhancements will allow local residents to better enjoy the flood plain area.
        Additionally, we are proposing a trail connection through the flood plain to connect residents to the regional
        trail which will run parallel to the train tracks and through the west portion of our site. We want to capitalize on
       the sites great proximity to the Littleton Light Rail Station and encourage pedestrian connectivity to the greatest
       extent possible. Our innovative construction technology will allow us to conceal almost all parking except for a
       small fraction of visitor and prospective resident parking. We will accommodate changes in land development
       technology by building to US Green Building Council (USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
       (LEED) certification at the Gold level. This results in operating efficiencies for energy and resource usage
       including water, electricity and gas ultimately minimizing the burden on City infrastructure. It represents a
       minimum of 15% improved energy efficiency over typical development standards. It also requires subcontractor
       training for waste recycling and material installation among many other details. Final certification is based on
       construction documentation and commissioning of major operating systems by third party consultant.

2. Encourage innovation and efficiency in residential development to meet the growing demands for housing of all
types and designs for persons of any social or economic status.
        Our project will have a mix of one and two bedroom units. Operating efficiencies of the LEED construction
        system will reduce operating expenses allowing luxury apartments at a premium location to be within the price
        range of teachers, administrative staff, as well as doctors, aerospace engineers, defense contractors and retired
        empty nesters. Alliance Residential Company is committed to full compliance with Fair Housing laws which
        prohibit discrimination in housing because of race, color, national origin, religion, gender, familial status and
        disability. Alliance also complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable
        accommodations for persons with disabilities. Reasonable is defined as: modifications to an apartment home or
        common area at the resident's expense if the modification is necessary for the disabled person to enjoy use of
        the apartment home and community. Where it is reasonable, the manager of the apartment community may
        permit modification and changes to be made if the disabled person agrees to restore the property to its original
        condition upon leaving the property. Examples of such modifications would be the installation of handrails or
        special door-opening devices, the installation of special signal devices to assist a hearing impaired person, or the
        reservation of a handicapped parking space for a person who must use a wheelchair for mobility.

3. Encourage innovative development or redevelopment of all land uses to meet the contemporary needs of the
community by providing for a greater variety and mix of uses including those which may coexist on the same parcel or
within the same building as shown on an approved PD Plan.
        The intent of this project is to bring a concentration of new customers to the existing Downtown Littleton
        businesses without adding vehicular traffic. This higher density could encourage more diverse businesses on
        Main Street such as specialty grocers or markets. However, residents are provided with many onsite amenities
        for convenience and recreation including:
             · Resort-style swimming pool and spa with outdoor tables, seating and garden lighting
             · Commercial grade outdoor bbq grills in garden courtyard
             · Indoor/outdoor rooftop observatory lounge providing all residents access to the spectacular mountain
                and night sky views
             · Indoor Wi-Fi/media cafe with 24 hour access to printing, coffee, tea and fresh water providing a social
                environment to residents who work from home
             · Large conference room with multimedia presentation capabilities providing a professional environment
                for residents who work from home

                                                                                                               11 | P a g e
            ·   Large commercial grade fitness center with 24 hour access including free weights, yoga/pilates studio,
                cardio machines and crossfit or TRX training area
            ·   Media lounge with multiple flat screen televisions and game tables available for residents to reserve and
                use for private events. Also open during business hours.
            ·   Bicycle repair space and secured bicycle storage to encourage multiple transit options from the
                community

4. Provide a process which relates the design and development of a site to the particular characteristics of the site.
        The most particular characteristic of the site is its proximity to the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station. The
        station is an outcome of millions of dollars of infrastructure investment that needs to be leveraged for the
        benefit of the community. By locating a dense multifamily project in the immediate vicinity of Mass Transit,
        several objectives are achieved such as, Economic Vitality, Enlarged Tax Base, Sustainable Development, Healthy
        Living, and Sustainable Transportation. A dense multifamily development has proven itself to be the most viable
        and necessary form of development in the vicinity of transit stops in the region. This project continues that
        trend.

5. Require that the nature and intensity of development be supported by adequate utilities, transportation network,
drainage systems and open space to serve the development, and to minimize impacts on adjacent existing and future
development.
       Based on Strategic Land Solution's (SLS) conversations with City Engineering staff, the existing utilities are
       capable of supporting this project. The preliminary design connects the building effluent line to the existing
       sanitary sewer main located in Littleton Boulevard. Water will be served by the main in S. Bemis Street, with a
       new fire hydrant connecting to the existing main in Littleton Boulevard. The existing water infrastructure is
       capable of supplying the expected fire flow requirements. Based on SLS's conversations with Xcel Energy and
       Century Link communications, there is sufficient existing natural gas, electrical, and telecommunications
       facilities near the project to serve the expected development requirements. Residents will have walkable access
       to the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station and RTD bus service. The development will also provide the
       required 1.5 parking spaces per units so residents can park their cars within our fully enclosed parking garage.
       Alliance will also provide a traffic signal at the corner of S. Bemis Street and Littleton Boulevard, if warranted by
       the City. The development will also provide 30% open space and through coordination with the City through the
       use of park impact fees generated by the project, will enhance the flood plain to the south of our site and add a
       trail connection on the west portion of our property.

6. Encourage development that is consistent with the policies and guidelines established in the adopted
Comprehensive Plan for the area and for the City.
       See attached for our Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan.

ADDITIONAL MATERIALS
A) The applicant shall submit a statement of the terms and conditions under which the subject property will be
developed and maintained subsequent to development. Such a statement shall include conditions, performance
standards and such other reasonable restrictions as may be necessary to ensure development and maintenance of the
subject property in full accordance with the approved PD Plan.
        During construction, Alliance will follow the Good Neighborhood Construction Policy:
        The Owners agree to implement a plan of construction management techniques, including the following:
            · Project Manager cell phone 24/7
            · Address parking for workers (on-site if possible)
            · No trucks and back up beeps before 8 a.m.
            · Construction weekdays 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. / weekends 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
            · Dust mitigation methods, including without limitation, water wagons for construction and dust control


                                                                                                               12 | P a g e
    ·   Use a website for the purpose of updating the Sterne Park Neighborhood property owners of important
        dates (such as street closures and water interruption) and generally for project updates. Provide a
        complaint forum via email so that neighborhood concerns are able to be expressed on a timely basis.

The Owners will adhere to the "4 C's"
Communication with Neighbors Can Facilitate Cooperation and Support
The 4-C Solution:
1. Communication: Builders who communicate while attempting to limit the impact that construction invariably
causes will win the tolerance of the neighboring residents. A sign on the site, a flyer, a letter to residents in the
immediate area explaining the project and the anticipated schedule can alleviate much of the residents'
concerns about the short-term problems commonly generated by construction

2. Common Sense: While it is the nature of construction to be messy, noisy and paced to meet the pressure of
deadlines and budgets, neighborhood sites require special consideration. Neighbors and builders must
acknowledge the root of the situation ­ the area is both a neighborhood, where people retreat from the work-a-
day world, and a job site, where time is money and money is the bottom line. Residents' concerns arise when
construction practices continually go beyond the limits of common sense.

3. Courtesy: Builders can work to the limit of the law, which allows construction noise from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
seven days a week. Thoughtful contractors who make the effort to schedule the more disruptive aspects of the
project to take place during weekdays between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. should expect few complaints from the
surrounding residents. Builders who respect neighbors' concerns and take action to remedy or modify a
problem will find that that kind of consideration should gain friendly support during the project.

4. Compromise: Compromise begins when builders and neighbors consider each other's point of view.
Compromise takes place through friendly communication between neighbors, the Owners and the contractors

GUIDELINES FOR BUILDERS
Informing Neighbors: At least two days in advance of construction or demolition, the Owners should:
1. Call or meet with as many neighbors as possible
2. Mail letters or flyers describing project
3. Post a sign at the site with a phone number for questions

During Construction: Considerate site policies and procedures should be specifically outlined for the
contractors' employees as well as any sub-contractors on the job.
1. Limit working hours of high noise operations to the middle of the day at least until the structure is fully
enclosed
2. Limit and control radio noise
3. Consider neighbor's exposure in sitting and screening the project's mechanical equipment
4. Place the dumpster on the lot or on the street in the middle of the site
5. Avoid blowing debris and accumulation of clutter
6. Cover the dumpster with a tarp bound by cord to contain dust and debris and to control unauthorized use of
the dumpster
7. Park construction vehicles off-street if possible. Turn off engines unless operating other equipment
8. Place portable toilets away from the property lines in less visible locations; arrange for regular service
9. Control dust with water and chutes
10. Avoid damage to trees and landscaping

To obtain LEED Gold Certification, the construction quality will be enhanced to achieve premium durability
above applicable building and energy code in the following areas:
1. Exterior Water/Moisture
                                                                                                        13 | P a g e
        2. Interior Water/Moisture
        3. Air Infiltration
        4. Interstitial Condensation
        5. Pests
        6. Heat Loss
        7. Ultraviolet Radiation

        Alliance Residential Company is a fully integrated, national operating company that is focused on acquiring,
        owning, developing, and managing rental multi-family properties throughout the United States. Broadstone at
        Littleton Station will be owned and operated by Alliance and will be held to high performance standards. Some
        of the development features will include FHA/ADA compliant design construction and certification, and LEED
        certification. During construction the property will follow a professional erosion and sediment control plan that
        will be verified through field certification. Alliance will utilize professional landscape design and will establish a
        continued maintenance plan. The design goal for the landscaping, as well as the exterior site lighting, will be to
        ensure a pedestrian scale throughout the project and its perimeter. The experience that Alliance Residential
        Company has in the multifamily residential market is clearly highlighted through their property management
        success. The property management staff will be on site seven days a week during regular business hours. After
        hours the site will be monitored by 24 hour on-call staff. Additionally, the site will have 24 hour parking patrol
        which will be regulated by permits, and in the winter months there will be 24 hour snow removal. Lease
        agreements will set limitations on what residents can keep on their balconies to minimize balcony storage. The
        property will also be designed with a central rooftop satellite dish to help avoid additional balcony clutter.


B) The applicant shall submit a written description of the objectives to be achieved by the particular development
concept being proposed. This statement shall include, but is not limited to, the manner in which the proposed
development meets or exceeds the intent of the planned development district, the proposed architectural and site
design concepts including style; placement of structures to maximize views and take advantage of the site's natural
characteristics; building materials (type, textures and colors); specific concepts by which the proposed development
will make an orderly transition from existing adjacent development including varied setbacks and facade treatment,
additional open space, screening of parking areas and landscaping of all public and private open spaces and
recreational facilities. It is the intent of this requirement that the applicant provide a clear, concise statement for the
reviewing authorities to better understand the proposed development concept and upon which a decision regarding
the proposal may be based.
Design Objectives:
     1. Respect the Historic Courthouse by scaling back the building on the corner of Littleton Blvd and Bemis St.
     2. Create a Gateway to Downtown Littleton by locating a highly articulated building mass on the northwest
        corner, away from the courthouse but closer to Downtown.
     3. Relate to the lower scale buildings along Bemis Street by setting back the first two stories by 20', the third story
        by 25', the fourth story by 45' and eliminating the fifth story. This will also preserve solar access for the
        buildings across the street.
     4. Relate to the lower scale buildings along Bemis Street by breaking up the lower story masses into many smaller
        blocks.
     5. Create an inviting and unimposing entry by limiting the height of the entry structure to one or two stories.
     6. Create a safe vehicular environment by adding a much required traffic signal on Littleton Blvd & Bemis St
        intersection.
     7. Upgrade outdated infrastructure by widening & replacing Bemis St fronting the site.
     8. Create a safe community that fosters social interaction by connecting the ground floor units to public
        walkways.
     9. Integrate the building into existing pedestrian infrastructure by providing a connection through the
        development for a regional trail.


                                                                                                                 14 | P a g e
    10. Respond to the view from Alamo Ave by creating a prominent highly articulated building element that
        culminates the vista from eastbound Alamo Avenue.
    11. Mitigate the length of the West Façade by breaking up the building into two masses and then further breaking
        the façades into smaller sub-masses.
    12. Screen Parking from View by locating all resident parking in a garage that is surrounded on all sides by
        dwellings.
    13. Preserve Open Space in at least 30% percent of the site. This exceeds the PD requirements.
    14. Maximum height shall not exceed 49'. This is more stringent than the existing zoning.
    15. Limit the use to Residential only (except the potential 1,200 SF neighborhood café recommended by Staff).
        This is more stringent than existing zoning which allows umpteen uses, some of which could be considered
        public nuisances.
    16. Use high quality building materials. Overall, brick masonry and cast stone masonry shall constitute at least 35%
        of all exterior building materials, not counting the openings. Cementitious stucco, cementitious panels, and
        metal panels shall constitute the other exterior building materials.
    17. Fit into existing neighborhood by utilizing warm hued color palettes inspired by the surrounding architecture.
    18. Mitigate light reflection pollution by limiting glass reflectivity on the west face of the building.
    19. Take advantage of the views by locating balconies and large openings especially along the south and west
        frontages.
    20. Provide highly amenetized common areas including Courtyard, Pool, Roof Deck, Lounge, & Fitness room for the
        residents.
    21. Provide a native xeric landscape that fits into the neighborhood, uses less water, and creates a year-round
        interest.
    22. Provide a sustainable building that contributes to the environment by pursuing LEED certification.

C) The applicant shall submit a written statement of the tentative time schedule for phased development. The
statement shall include the type of development, density, floor area ratios, etc., for each phase of development, and
shall be accompanied by a map generally designating the phases and the sequence of development.
        Alliance Residential Company plans on developing and financing Broadstone at Littleton Station as one phase.
        Pending rezoning, site plan and building permit approvals, construction of the residential development will
        begin March 2014. The leasing center and clubhouse will open first, approximately 14 months after the start
        of construction, in May 2015. Units will then be leased up at a rate of 20 units per month resulting in a fully
        completed project by March 2016. We are currently planning for a maximum of 225 units ranging in size
        from 695 square feet to 1,250 square feet. These units will include a mix of 51% one bedroom/one bathroom
        and 59% two bedrooms/two bathrooms.




                                                                                                            15 | P a g e
BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION
  RESIDENTIAL REDEVELOPMENT

      TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS
           FINAL REPORT




                 Prepared for:

        Alliance Residential Company
 2000 S. Colorado Blvd., Tower 1, Suite 10500
           Denver, Colorado 80222




                 Prepared by:

           Felsburg Holt & Ullevig
     6300 South Syracuse Way, Suite 600
         Centennial, Colorado 80111
               303/721-1440


 Principal: Christopher J. Fasching, P.E., PTOE
 Project Engineer: Charles M. Buck, P.E., PTOE




         FHU Reference No. 12-310-01
                August 2013
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                              Page
I.      INTRODUCTION -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1 
II.     EXISTING CONDITIONS --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
        A.    Existing Traffic Volumes and Crash Data --------------------------------------------------- 4 
        B.    Existing Roadway Network --------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
        C.    Intersection Capacity ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
III.    BACKGROUND TRAFFIC CONDITIONS ------------------------------------------------------------ 7 
        A.    Traffic Volume Projections ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 7 
        B.    Capacity Analyses -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7 
IV.     TRIP GENERATION and TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT---------------------------------------------- 10 
        A.    Trip Generation ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 10 
        B.    Assignment of New Site Generated Trips -------------------------------------------------- 10 
V.      FUTURE CONDITIONS WITH DEVELOPMENT -------------------------------------------------- 13 
        A.    Total Traffic Volumes ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 13 
        B.    Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis --------------------------------------------------------------- 13 
        C.    Traffic Operations -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 16 
        D.    Signal Progression ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 17 
VI.     FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ------------------------------------------------------------ 18 


LIST OF APPENDICES

APPENDIX A  COUNT AND CRASH DATA 
APPENDIX B  EXISTING LEVELS OF SERVICE SHEETS 
APPENDIX C  2014 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS 
APPENDIX D  2035 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS 
APPENDIX E  WARRANT 3 CHART ­ PEAK HOUR 
APPENDIX F  2014 BUILDOUT LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS 
APPENDIX G  2035 BUILDOUT LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS 
APPENDIX H  SIGNAL PROGRESSION 
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



LIST OF FIGURES
                                                                                                                Page
Figure 1.     Vicinity Map ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2 
Figure 2.     Conceptual Site Plan ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3 
Figure 3.     Existing Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service --------------------- 6 
Figure 4.     2014 Background Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service -------- 8 
Figure 5.     2035 Background Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service -------- 9 
Figure 6.     Site Generated Traffic Volumes -------------------------------------------------------------- 12 
Figure 7.     2014 Total Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service ---------------- 14 
Figure 8.     2035 Total Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service ---------------- 15 


LIST OF TABLES

Table 1.      Site Trip Generation ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 10 
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



I.      INTRODUCTION
The purpose of this report is to provide information specifically related to the traffic impacts
associated with redevelopment of an existing property located in the southwest corner of
Littleton Boulevard/Bemis Street intersection in Littleton, Colorado. Figure 1 shows the location
of the site relative to the adjacent primary roadway system. A previous traffic study was
completed by Felsburg, Holt & Ullevig for this site in September 2005 entitled Downtown
Littleton Transit Oriented Development. A subsequent development proposal was addressed in
a February 2013 analysis, with further refinements evaluated in a May 2013 traffic study,
entitled Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment, Second Edition, also by
Felsburg Holt & Ullevig. The development concept for Broadstone has since been modified, with
a reduction in the number of residential apartments proposed; currently, 225 dwelling units are
envisioned.

Existing site land uses include two buildings with a combined total of about 33,000 square feet
of professional office space. These buildings would be razed and replaced with two apartment
buildings totaling 225 units. The proposed site plan concept plan is depicted on Figure 2.

Direct access to the project site is currently and will continue to be provided via Bemis Street.
No direct access to the project site is planned along Littleton Boulevard.

The purposes of this study are (1) to evaluate the impact that traffic generated by the proposed
development will have on key intersections in the study area and (2) to determine any needed
mitigation measures or transportation improvements. This study assesses the impacts
associated with two development scenarios, described as follows:

        Year 2014: Completion of the full construction of the redeveloped site.

        Year 2035: Long term planning horizon for the development.




                                                                                             Page 1
                  S. Federal Blvd.




                                                                                                                  l.
                                                                                                                ur t P
                                     Centennial




                                                                                                                  o
                                        Golf




                                                                                                             S. C
                                      Course
                                                                                                                      PROJECT
                                                                                                                      SITE
                                                            W. Main St.
                                                                                        One                           W. Littleton Blvd.
                                                                                        Way
                               .                         One
                            Ave                          Way
                        les




                                                                                                                                           S. Windermere St.
           w
         Bo
      W.



                                                                                              S. Bemis St.
                                                       W. Church Ave.
                                                         Arapahoe
                                                        Community
                                                          College                                                        Sterne
                                                                                                                          Park
                                                                                                                          W. Lake Ave.


                                                  85
                                                                        S. Prince St.




                                                                                                                                                               Figure 1
        FELSBURG                                                                                                                         Vicinity Map
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                         NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
                                                     Figure 2
          FELSBURG                       Conceptual Site Plan
          H O LT &
          ULLE VI G                              NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



II.      EXISTING CONDITIONS
A.       Existing Traffic Volumes and Crash Data

Existing traffic volumes at key locations in the site vicinity are provided on Figure 3. This figure
also shows the existing pedestrian traffic utilizing the crosswalk located just west of Bemis
Street. Currently there are approximately 30 pedestrians crossing Littleton Boulevard during
both the AM and PM peak hours. Traffic data was collected in October 2012 and is provided in
Appendix A.

In addition, three years (2010 to 2012) of crash data for the intersection of Littleton Boulevard
and Bemis Street were also reviewed to determine if a correctable crash pattern exists. An
intersection diagram as well as a crash listing can be found in Appendix A. During the three
year period, there were a total of 10 crashes at this intersection, 8 of which were rear end
crashes that occurred on Littleton Boulevard.

B.       Existing Roadway Network

The existing transportation network in the site vicinity includes the following key roadways:

         Littleton Boulevard: This four-lane minor arterial extends east from Downtown Littleton
         to Broadway. Littleton Boulevard splits into one-way streets through the downtown area
         of Littleton, with the westbound direction being Main Street and the eastbound direction
         being Alamo Avenue. The speed limit is posted 25 miles per hour adjacent to the site.

         Bemis Street: This two-lane local street extends south from Littleton Boulevard to Lake
         Street. This road serves both residential and commercial uses. Daily traffic count data
         indicates that Bemis Street currently carries about 960 vehicles per day (vpd) just south
         of Littleton Boulevard.

         Lake Street: This collector street extends east of Prince Street to Windermere Street.
         The intersection of Lake Street and Bemis Street is all-way stop-sign controlled.

C.       Intersection Capacity

Capacity analyses were conducted at the three study area intersections using analysis methods
documented in the Highway Capacity Manual 2010, December 2010 by the Transportation
Research Board. The analysis software Synchro 8 was utilized in these analyses. These
analyses use the existing traffic volumes and intersection lane geometry to develop a level of
service (LOS), a measure of the ease of traffic flow through an intersection. Level of service A
represents relatively uninterrupted flow with little or no vehicle delay, while LOS F represents
undue delay and excessive congestion.

Using the HCM criteria, the existing traffic volumes, intersection lane assignments and traffic
control measures, capacity analyses of these intersections were conducted. Currently the
intersections at Littleton Boulevard/Bemis Street and Bemis Street/existing site access operate




                                                                                              Page 4
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



as two way stop controlled intersections. As previously mentioned, the intersection at Lake
Avenue is all-way stop-sign controlled.

As can be seen on Figure 3, the majority of the movements at the intersections currently
operate at LOS C or better during both peak hours. The only exception is the northbound Bemis
Street approach to Littleton Boulevard, which currently operates at LOS E during the PM peak
hour. LOS worksheets for the existing conditions are included in Appendix B.




                                                                                          Page 5
   LEGEND

   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                b/b
   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Pedestrian Volumes




                                                                                                                 28(31)
    XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                   678(1059)
       x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized                                                                                 17(33)




                                                                                                                                                          c/e
                      Intersection Level of Service
                                                                                                         945(1029)




                                                                                                   l.
                                                                                              ur t P
                    = Stop Sign                                                                             27(28)




                                                                                                                              4(14)
                                                                                                                             14(29)
                                                                                         o
                                                                                    S. C
                                                       W. Main St.
                                                                One
                                                                Way                                                           W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                     Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                   958




                                                                                                                          20(51)
                                                                                                                          17(9)
                                                         One
                                                         Way                SITE

                                               Light Rail                                                       2(17)
                                                Station                                                          1(5)




                                                                                                                                      3(1)
                                                                                                                                    20(28)
                                                                                    S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                              Sterne                         a/a
                                                                                                               Park




                                                                                                                                                    a/a
                                                                      Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                                   W. Lake Ave.
                                         a/a




                                                                  9(23)
                                                                  2(8)
                                                                  2(7)




                                                                           5(7)
                                                                           61(97)
                                                      a/a                  2(4)

                           a/a                                4(2)
                                                            42(62)
                                                                          4(3)
                                                                          0(2)
                                                                          4(2)




                                                              1(4)
                                               a/a




                                                                                                                                                          Figure 3
                                                                                                                         Existing Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                              Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                                   NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



III.   BACKGROUND TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
A.     Traffic Volume Projections

Background traffic consists of vehicle-trips on the roadway network unrelated to the proposed
residential development. First, traffic from the existing site land uses was removed from the
turning movements since these uses will be replaced by the proposed development. The
existing daily traffic on Bemis Street just south of Littleton Boulevard was reduced based on the
assumption that the AM Peak hour traffic to/from the site is approximately 10 percent of the
daily traffic. This is a reduction of approximately 200 vehicles on Bemis Street just south of
Littleton Boulevard.

Background traffic volumes were then developed using an annual growth rate of 0.5 percent,
based on information from historic traffic counts compiled by the City of Littleton. Given that the
area in the vicinity of the site is nearly built out, a 0.5 percent grow rate is reasonable. The
projected Year 2014 background traffic volumes are depicted on Figure 4 while Year 2035
background traffic volumes are shown on Figure 5.

B.     Capacity Analyses

LOS analyses were completed for each of the future background traffic scenarios, the results of
which can be seen on Figures 4 and 5. LOS worksheets for the background conditions can be
found in Appendices C and D. For the Year 2014 background traffic scenario, all of the stop-
controlled intersections are anticipated to operate at LOS D or better during the AM and PM
peak hours with the existing lane geometry in place. In 2035, most of the stop controlled
approaches are expected to operate at LOS C or better, with the exception of the northbound
Bemis Street approach at Littleton Boulevard. This movement is expected to operate at LOS E
during the PM peak hour.




                                                                                             Page 7
   LEGEND

   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                     b/b
    XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
       x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized
                      Intersection Level of Service                                                                       678(1059)
                                                                                                                          10(28)




                                                                                                                                               c/d
                    = Stop Sign
                                                                                                         945(1029)




                                                                                                   l.
                                                                                              ur t P
                                                                                                            17(24)




                                                                                                                         4(9)
                                                                                                                       12(17)
                                                                                         o
                                                                                    S. C
                                                       W. Main St.
                                                                 One
                                                                 Way                                                   W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                     Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                   760
                                                            One
                                                            Way             SITE

                                               Light Rail
                                                Station                             S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                              Sterne
                                                                                                               Park



                                                                       Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                          W. Lake Ave.
                                         a/a




                                                                  9(23)
                                                                  2(8)
                                                                  2(7)




                                                                           5(7)
                                                                           61(97)
                                                      a/a                  2(4)

                           a/a                                  4(2)
                                                              42(62)
                                                                          4(3)
                                                                          0(2)
                                                                          4(2)




                                                                1(4)
                                               a/a




                                                                                                                                               Figure 4
                                                                                                                 2014 Background Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                              Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                            NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
   LEGEND

   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                      b/b
    XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
       x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized
                      Intersection Level of Service                                                                        760(1190)
                                                                                                                           10(30)




                                                                                                                                                c/e
                    = Stop Sign
                                                                                                         1060(1155)




                                                                                                     l.
                                                                                                ur t P
                                                                                                             20(25)




                                                                                                                         5(10)
                                                                                                                        15(20)
                                                                                           o
                                                                                      S. C
                                                       W. Main St.
                                                                 One
                                                                 Way                                                    W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                     Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                     850
                                                            One
                                                            Way              SITE

                                               Light Rail
                                                Station                               S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                               Sterne
                                                                                                                Park



                                                                       Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                           W. Lake Ave.
                                                                  10(25)
                                         a/a




                                                                  5(10)
                                                                  5(10)




                                                                            5(10)
                                                                            70(110)
                                                      a/a                   5(5)

                           a/a                                  5(5)
                                                              45(70)
                                                                           5(5)
                                                                           5(5)
                                                                           5(5)




                                                                5(5)
                                               a/a




                                                                                                                                                Figure 5
                                                                                                                  2035 Background Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                               Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                             NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



IV.        TRIP GENERATION AND TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT
A.         Trip Generation

The amount of traffic that the project site is expected to generate was estimated using data
documented by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) in their manual entitled Trip
Generation, 9th Edition (2012). Given that the project site is situated immediately adjacent to a
major light rail/transit station, it is anticipated that a portion of the trips oriented to/from the
project site will be transit related, thereby reducing the potential amount of vehicle traffic that the
project site will generate. Transit reduction factors from Table B.3 of the ITE Trip Generation
Handbook, 2nd Edition, were applied to the total vehicle-trip generation for the project site.
Specifically, a 10% trip reduction was applied to the residential trips generated by this site. Of
note, this is the same reduction applied in the September 2005 study.

Table 1 summarizes the total estimated vehicle-trips that will be generated by the proposed
development.

Table 1.           Site Trip Generation

                                                        AM Peak Hour Trips       PM Peak Hour Trips
          Land Use         ITE                 Daily
         Description      Code      Size       Trips    In     Out    Total      In        Out     Total
 Apartment                 220       225 du     1,496    25      90     115           90     50      140

              Transit Related Trip Reduction    (150)    (2)    (9)     (11)      (9)       (5)     (14)
                 TOTAL VEHICLE TRIPS           1,346     23     81     104        81        45      126
 du = dwelling units

As shown in Table 1, it is estimated that the project site will generate a total of approximately
1,346 vehicle-trips per day with a total of 104 vehicle-trips during the AM peak hour and 126
vehicle-trips during the PM peak hour.

B.         Assignment of New Site Generated Trips

The distribution of site generated vehicle trips was based upon existing travel patterns in the
study area. As a condition of the development, turning movements to/from Bemis Street south
of the site will be restricted through signing to minimize impacts to the neighborhood; therefore,
a reduced percentage of trips oriented to/from Bemis Street south of the site has been
assumed. The resultant trip distribution is as follows:

           50 percent oriented to/from the east via Littleton Blvd,
           40 percent oriented to/from the west via Littleton Blvd/Alamo Ave.,
           5 percent oriented to/from the west via Lake Street,
           3 percent oriented to/from the east via Lake Street,
           2 percent oriented to/from the south via Bemis Street




                                                                                                  Page 10
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



The trip distribution and resultant site generated traffic assignment are graphically depicted on
Figure 6. As shown, the proposed apartments are expected to add approximately 1,212
vehicle-trips per day (VPD) to Bemis Street between the site access and Littleton Boulevard.
Daily increases of approximately 540 to 672 VPD are projected along Littleton Boulevard in the
vicinity of the site. An increase of about 134 VPD is estimated along Bemis Street immediately
south of the site, with 40 to 68 VPD on Lake Avenue.




                                                                                          Page 11
  LEGEND

 XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
  XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volume

   XX%
                  = Site Trip Distribution

                                                                                                         540             12(41)
                                                              40%
                                                                                                        9(32)




                                                                                                 l.
                                                                                            ur t P




                                                                                                                    32(18)
                                                                                                                    41(23)
                                                                                       o
                                                                                  S. C
                                               W. Main St.
                                                          One
                                                          Way                                                672          W. Littleton Blvd.


                                            Alamo Ave.                                                                    50%




                                                                                                 1212
                                                  One
                                                  Way                      SITE




                                                                                                                               21(73)
                                         Light Rail
                                          Station


                                                                                                                     73(41)
                                                                                                                       8(4)




                                                                                                                                        2(8)
                                                                                  S. Bemis St.
                                                                                                 134




                                                                                                                Sterne
                                                                                                                 Park



                                                                    Shepperd Ave.




                                                                           68                             40                 W. Lake Ave.


                                           5%                                                                                           3%
                                                                                                        2%
                                                      4(2)
                                                      3(1)
                                                      1(1)




                                                                                  26




                                                                    1(3)

                                                  1(4)
                                                             0(1)




                                                                                                                                                  Figure 6
        FELSBURG                                                                                                         Site Generated Traffic Volumes
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                               NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



V.     FUTURE CONDITIONS WITH DEVELOPMENT
A.     Total Traffic Volumes

Year 2014

Figure 7 depicts the total Year 2014 traffic volumes. These traffic volumes were calculated by
adding together the background traffic volumes shown on Figure 4 and the site generated traffic
volumes shown on Figure 6.

Long-Term Future (Year 2035)

Figure 8 depicts the total traffic volumes in the long term future. These traffic volumes were
calculated by adding together the background traffic volumes shown on Figure 5 and the site
generated traffic volumes shown on Figure 6.

B.     Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis

The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), FHWA, 2009 identifies nine warrants
that provide guidance to determine whether installation of a traffic signal is justified. These
warrants are based on traffic volumes, pedestrian levels, crash experience, and other criteria.

For this study, future traffic conditions at Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street were evaluated
relative to Warrant 3 (Peak Hour Volume), Warrant 4 (Pedestrian Volume) and Warrant 7
(Crash Experience). The MUTCD states that Warrant 3 should only be used for analyzing
intersections that have unusual traffic characteristics such as a large number of vehicles
discharging over a short timeframe (such as shift changes at a factory). That is not the case for
this project; therefore, traffic signal warrant analyses using Warrant 3 are only included in this
analysis as a guide for the potential of signalization in the future, not as a recommendation.
Appendix E contains a graphic illustrating the projected traffic volumes relative to the peak hour
warrant.

Considering these warrants, there is the potential that a traffic signal could be warranted in the
future at the intersection of Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street due to vehicle volume and
delay, but is unlikely due to pedestrian volume or crash experience.

A pedestrian volume of approximately 100 pedestrians per hour is needed to meet Warrant 4.
The current pedestrian volume is only 30 pedestrians per hour, and the site could contribute an
additional 18 to 26 pedestrians per hour (based on mode-split estimates applied to the trip
generation). As many of of the site pedestrian trips would be oriented to/from the nearby light
rail station, the pedestrian crossing volume at the intersection would remain well below the
threshold.

Vehicle safety could be a consideration at this intersection due to the difficult northbound to
westbound left turn movement, but the crash history currently does not show collisions involving
northbound left turning vehicles. As previously mentioned, crash data is included in the
appendix to this report.




                                                                                            Page 13
   LEGEND

   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                 b/b
    XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
       x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized
                      Intersection Level of Service                                                                               678(1059)
                                                                                                                                  22(69)




                                                                                                                                                           e/f
      X/X           = AM/PM Peak Hour Signalized
                                                                                                           945(1029)




                                                                                                    l.
                      Intersection Level of Service




                                                                                               ur t P
                                                                                                              26(56)                              A/A




                                                                                                                            36(27)
                                                                                                                            53(40)
                    = Stop Sign




                                                                                          o
                                                                                     S. C
                    = Traffic Signal

                                                       W. Main St.
                                                                 One                                                                              with signal
                                                                 Way                                                         W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                     Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                    1972




                                                                                                                         20(51)
                                                                                                                         21(73)
                                                            One
                                                            Way              SITE

                                               Light Rail                                                       73(41)
                                                Station                                                           8(4)




                                                                                                                                     2(8)
                                                                                                                                   20(28)
                                                                                     S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                                Sterne                      a/a
                                                                                                                 Park




                                                                                                                                                     a/a
                                                                       Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                                  W. Lake Ave.
                                                                  13(25)
                                         a/a




                                                                  3(9)
                                                                  5(8)




                                                                            6(10)
                                                                            61(97)
                                                      a/a                   2(4)

                           a/a                                  5(6)
                                                              42(62)
                                                                           4(3)
                                                                           0(3)
                                                                           4(3)




                                                                1(4)
                                               a/a




                                                                                                                                                           Figure 7
                                                                                                                         2014 Total Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                                Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                                   NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
    LEGEND

    XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                               b/b
     XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
        x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized
                       Intersection Level of Service                                                                             760(1190)
                                                                                                                                 22(71)




                                                                                                                                                         f/f
       X/X           = AM/PM Peak Hour Signalized
                                                                                                         1060(1155)




                                                                                                     l.
                       Intersection Level of Service




                                                                                                ur t P
                                                                                                             29(57)                              A/A




                                                                                                                           37(28)
                                                                                                                           56(43)
                     = Stop Sign




                                                                                           o
                                                                                      S. C
                     = Traffic Signal

                                                       W. Main St.
                                                                 One                                                                             with signal
                                                                 Way                                                        W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                     Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                     2062




                                                                                                                        30(55)
                                                                                                                        21(73)
                                                            One
                                                            Way              SITE

                                               Light Rail                                                      73(41)
                                                Station                                                          8(4)




                                                                                                                                    2(8)
                                                                                                                                  20(30)
                                                                                      S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                               Sterne                      a/a
                                                                                                                Park




                                                                                                                                                   a/a
                                                                       Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                                 W. Lake Ave.
                                                                  14(12)
                                         a/a




                                                                  6(11)
                                                                  8(11)




                                                                            8(13)
                                                                            70(110)
                                                      a/a                   5(5)

                           a/a                                  6(9)
                                                              45(70)
                                                                           5(5)
                                                                           5(6)
                                                                           5(5)




                                                                5(5)
                                               a/a




                                                                                                                                                         Figure 8
                                                                                                                        2035 Total Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                               Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                                  NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



With respect to traffic volumes, the forecasts suggest that the Littleton Boulevard/Bemis Street
intersection would be a borderline condition relative to satisfying the relevant warrants, when
considered in isolation. However, the potential exists to incorporate the Littleton
Boulevard/Court Place intersection, located 190 feet to the west, into the signalization. There
are several considerations that would contribute to the need for signalizing this offset
intersection system, and they include:

        The level of traffic that Court Place serves (which is unknown at this time)

        The fact that Littleton Boulevard splits into one-way pairs at this location

        The fact that pedestrians cross Littleton Boulevard between Bemis Street and Court
        Place (with a striped cross-walk in place to accommodate this activity)

This combination of factors, coupled with the level of Bemis Street traffic, may provide
justification for signalization. Further, a signal at this intersection would improve operations for
turning movements from Court Place onto Littleton Boulevard. With completion of Broadstone at
Littleton Station, conditions should be periodically monitored and a comprehensive signal
warrant analysis should be conducted.  

C.      Traffic Operations

Year 2014

The projected Year 2014 traffic operations are depicted on Figure 7. As shown, most of the
stop controlled approaches are expected to operate at LOS B or better during both peak hours
with the existing lane geometry and traffic control. The only exception would be the northbound
approach to Littleton Boulevard on Bemis Street which is expected to operate at LOS E or
worse. This condition is due primarily to the relatively heavy through- volumes along Littleton
Boulevard, which limit the number of gaps in traffic for northbound left-turns. The longest queue
on the northbound approach is projected to be approximately three vehicles. If signalized, this
intersection would operate at LOS A during both peak hours.

Level of service worksheets can be found in Appendix F.

Long-Term Future (Year 2035)

The projected Year 2035 traffic control and levels of service are depicted on Figure 8. As
shown, most of the stop controlled operations would remain at LOS B or better during both peak
hours under the existing lane geometry and traffic control. The only exception would be the
northbound approach to Littleton Boulevard on Bemis Street, which is expected to operate at
LOS F during both peak hours. Again, this is primarily due to the heavy traffic volumes on
Littleton Boulevard. The longest queue on the northbound approach is expected to be
approximately 5 vehicles. If signalized, this intersection would operate at LOS A during both
peak hours. Under signalized traffic control, the northbound maximum probable queue would be
approximately three vehicles, and the westbound left-turn queue would be less than two




                                                                                            Page 16
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



vehicles. The existing westbound left-turn turn bay provides about 45 feet of storage, which
would be adequate to accommodate the anticipated queue for this movement.

Level of service worksheets, as well as queue reports for the signalized intersection analyses,
can be found in Appendix G.

D.     Signal Progression

Signal progression is an engineering term that describes the ability to drive through a signalized
corridor without encountering a red signal indication. Roadways with higher levels of
progression have fewer stops and less delay. Progression is a function of signal spacing, signal
timing, and corridor speeds. Generally, roadways with fewer traffic signals have higher levels of
progression than roadways with more frequent signalized intersections. An analysis was
conducted to estimate the potential impacts that a new signal at Bemis Street would have on
progression along Littleton Boulevard using Synchro 8.The progression analysis was based on
a progression speed of 25 MPH progression speed using a signal cycle length of 100 seconds.
Progression was tested both with and without a traffic signal at Bemis Street.

It was determined that, with the current signal locations, progression green-bands would be an
average of approximately 15.5 seconds along Littleton Boulevard. A traffic signal was then
added to the system at Bemis Street; the resultant green-bands remained at an average of 15.5
seconds. Thus, the additional signal would not impact progressive movement along Littleton
Boulevard. Time-space diagrams and signal timing data are included in Appendix H.




                                                                                           Page 17
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



VI.      FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
This report documents the potential traffic impacts associated with the redevelopment of the
existing property located on the southwest corner of the Littleton Boulevard/Bemis Street
intersection. This site accommodates two existing office buildings at a combined total of about
33,000 square feet. These existing uses will be replaced with two residential apartment
buildings containing a total of 225 units. Vehicular access to the site will be provided via Bemis
Street. No direct access to the project site is planned along Littleton Boulevard.

At full buildout, this site is anticipated to add approximately 1,346 trips per day to the
surrounding roadway network, with approximately 104 trips occurring during the AM peak hour
and approximately 126 trips during the PM peak hour. The impacts of this additional traffic were
evaluated under near term (Year 2014) and long term (Year 2035) conditions. In general, the
existing adjacent roadway system is projected to have sufficient capacity to accommodate the
increase in traffic. All study area intersection operations are expected to remain acceptable
during peak times, with the exception of the northbound approach to Littleton Boulevard on
Bemis Street. This intersection would experience congestion and delays for northbound
movements under the current stop sign control. Relative to this, the findings and
recommendations of this analysis are summarized as follows:

         Traffic conditions at the Littleton Boulevard//Bemis Street intersection should be
         periodically monitored, and a traffic signal should be installed, when warranted based on
         MUTCD criteria.

         A traffic signal at this location would help to reduce projected congestion and queues on
         both the Bemis Street and Court Place approaches, assist pedestrians in crossing
         Littleton Boulevard, and help to improve safety for the northbound to westbound left turn
         movement. Projected operations would be at LOS A during peak times.

         A traffic signal at Littleton Boulevard/Bemis Street would not impact the potential for
         progressive movement along Littleton Boulevard.

         The existing westbound left-turn lane on Littleton Boulevard at Bemis Street has
         sufficient storage to accommodate potential queues; modifications to the median are not
         required.

         The proposed residential development would have the potential to generate an
         estimated 18 to 26 pedestrian trips per hour. Many of these trips would be oriented
         to/from the nearby light rail station. Improvements proposed with this development
         include widening of the existing sidewalk on Alamo Avenue (including the sidewalk on
         the Alamo Bridge), and trail system improvements.




                                                                                             Page 18
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX A           COUNT AND CRASH DATA




                                                                                   Appendix A
                                                                            All Traffic Data Services
                                                                            Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                303-668-0220
                                                                                                                         File Name        : #1 BEMIS&LITTLETONAM
                                                                                                                         Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                         Page No          :1
                                                                             Groups Printed- Class 1
                         BEMIS                                       LITTLETON BLVD                  BEMIS                                    LITTLETON BLVD
                       Southbound                                       Westbound                 Northbound                                     Eastbound
Start Time    Rght      Thru  Left Other                          Rght Thru    Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                       Rght Thru    Left Other Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0         0    0      0                             0   117     1      0      2      0     0      4                          3   186     0      0       313
  07:15 AM       0         0    0      0                             0   122     6      0      5      0     0     11                          4   220     0      0       368
  07:30 AM       0         0    0      0                             0   162     4      0      6      0     1      8                          7   237     0      0       425
  07:45 AM       0         0    0      0                             0   170     5      0      4      0     3     10                          6   259     0      0       457
      Total      0         0    0      0                             0   571    16      0     17      0     4     33                         20   902     0      0     1563

  08:00 AM      0                      0              0       0     0    178      6               0               3      0    0      6        7           232                      0   0    432
  08:15 AM      0                      0              0       0     0    168      2               0               1      0    0      4        7           217                      0   0    399
  08:30 AM      0                      0              0       0     0    141      4               1               5      0    0      6        4           169                      0   0    330
  08:45 AM      0                      0              0       0     0    168      0               0               7      0    1     10        3           231                      0   0    420
      Total     0                      0              0       0     0    655     12               1              16      0    1     26       21           849                      0   0   1581

Grand Total     0                      0              0       0     0   1226     28               1              33      0     5     59      41           1751                     0   0   3144
 Apprch %       0                      0              0       0     0   97.7    2.2             0.1              34      0   5.2   60.8     2.3           97.7                     0   0
   Total %      0                      0              0       0     0     39    0.9               0               1      0   0.2    1.9     1.3           55.7                     0   0


                                                                                               BEMIS
                                                                                Out              In              Total
                                                                                          0         0                0


                                                                                  0     0                    0       0
                                                                               Rght Thru              Left       Other
                                     3023


                                                0
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                            1784
                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                0 1226
                      LITTLETON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                              LITTLETON BLVD



                                                                                                North
                                                    41 1751
                                            Other Rght Thru
                             1792
                              In




                                                                                                                                                                    1255
                                                                                                                                                                     In




                                                                                 10/2/2012 07:00 AM
                                                                                 10/2/2012 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                             Left Other
                                                                                                                                               28
                     1231




                                                                                 Class 1
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                           3039
                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                               Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                                      5           0  33    59


                                                                                  69               97              166
                                                                                Out              In              Total
                                                                                               BEMIS
                                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                           File Name           : #1 BEMIS&LITTLETONAM
                                                                                                                           Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                           Start Date          : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                           Page No             :2

                         BEMIS                     LITTLETON BLVD                     BEMIS                                                         LITTLETON BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                    Northbound                                                          Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                                  App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
 07:30 AM      0       0     0     0      0      0 162     4   0   166         6    0    1    8                                        15        7         237               0          0   244       425
 07:45 AM      0       0     0     0      0      0 170     5   0   175         4    0    3   10                                        17        6         259               0          0   265       457
 08:00 AM      0       0     0     0      0      0 178     6   0   184         3    0    0    6                                         9        7         232               0          0   239      432
 08:15 AM      0       0     0     0      0      0 168     2   0   170         1    0    0    4                                         5        7         217               0          0   224      399
 Total Volume  0       0     0     0      0      0 678    17   0   695       14     0    4   28                                        46       27         945               0          0   972     1713
 % App. Total  0       0     0     0             0 97.6 2.4    0            30.4    0  8.7 60.9                                          2.8 97.2    0    0
      PHF .000 .000 .000 .000                                  .000 .000 .952 .708 .000            .944 .583 .000 .333 .700        .676 .964 .912 .000 .000                                 .917     .937

                                                                                                   BEMIS
                                                                                    Out              In            Total
                                                                                              0         0              0


                                                                                      0     0                  0       0
                                                                                   Rght Thru            Left       Other




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                      1654


                                                 0
                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                  Rght Thru
                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                  959
                                                                                                                                                     0
                       LITTLETON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                   LITTLETON BLVD
                                                                                                    North
                                                         945
                                             Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                        678
                                972
                               In




                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM                                                             695
                                                     27




                                                                                                                                                  Left Other




                                                                                  Class 1
                                                                                                                                                    17
                       682
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                1654
                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                   Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                                          4           0  14    28


                                                                                      44               46             90
                                                                                    Out              In            Total
                                                                                                   BEMIS
                                                                            All Traffic Data Services
                                                                            Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                303-668-0220
                                                                                                                    File Name         : #1 BEMIS&LITTLETONPM
                                                                                                                    Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date        : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                    Page No           :1
                                                                             Groups Printed- Class 1
                         BEMIS                                       LITTLETON BLVD                  BEMIS                                LITTLETON BLVD
                       Southbound                                       Westbound                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
Start Time    Rght      Thru  Left Other                          Rght Thru    Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                   Rght Thru    Left Other Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0         0    0      0                             0   248     8      0      3      0     2     14                      4   254     0      0       533
  04:15 PM       0         0    0      0                             0   253     4      0      6      0     6      5                      4   225     0      0       503
  04:30 PM       0         0    0      0                             0   270    11      0      5      0     3      6                      6   234     0      0       535
  04:45 PM       0         0    0      0                             0   267     9      0     10      0     4     10                     17   248     0      0       565
      Total      0         0    0      0                             0 1038     32      0     24      0    15     35                     31   961     0      0     2136

  05:00 PM      0                      0              0       0     0    252      8          0               7      0     2      7        4            285                     0   0    565
  05:15 PM      0                      0              0       0     0    270      5          0               7      0     5      8        1            262                     0   0    558
  05:30 PM      0                      0              0       0     0    265     11          0               8      0     2      7        3            239                     0   0    535
  05:45 PM      0                      0              0       0     0    232      5          0              14      0     3      4        8            239                     0   0    505
      Total     0                      0              0       0     0   1019     29          0              36      0    12     26       16           1025                     0   0   2163

Grand Total     0                      0              0       0     0   2057     61          0            60        0     27     61      47           1986                     0   0   4299
 Apprch %       0                      0              0       0     0   97.1    2.9          0          40.5        0   18.2   41.2     2.3           97.7                     0   0
   Total %      0                      0              0       0     0   47.8    1.4          0           1.4        0    0.6    1.4     1.1           46.2                     0   0


                                                                                          BEMIS
                                                                                Out         In              Total
                                                                                      0        0                0


                                                                                  0     0               0       0
                                                                               Rght Thru         Left       Other
                                     4117


                                                0
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                         Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                        2046
                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                            0 2057
                      LITTLETON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                          LITTLETON BLVD



                                                                                           North
                                                    47 1986
                                            Other Rght Thru
                             2033
                              In




                                                                                                                                                                2118
                                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                                 10/2/2012 04:00 PM
                                                                                 10/2/2012 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                         Left Other
                                                                                                                                           61
                     2084




                                                                                 Class 1
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                       4164
                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                               Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                 27     0  60    61


                                                                                 108         148              256
                                                                                Out         In              Total
                                                                                          BEMIS
                                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                      File Name           : #1 BEMIS&LITTLETONPM
                                                                                                                      Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                      Start Date          : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                      Page No             :2

                         BEMIS                     LITTLETON BLVD                     BEMIS                                                    LITTLETON BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                    Northbound                                                     Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                             App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
 04:30 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0 270    11   0   281         5    0    3    6                                   14        6         234               0          0   240       535
 04:45 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0 267     9   0   276       10     0    4   10                                   24       17         248               0          0   265       565
 05:00 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0 252     8   0   260         7    0    2    7                                   16        4 285                       0          0    289     565
 05:15 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0 270     5   0   275         7    0    5    8                                   20        1 262                       0          0    263     558
 Total Volume  0       0     0     0      0      0 1059   33   0 1092        29     0   14   31                                   74       28 1029                      0          0   1057    2223
 % App. Total  0       0     0     0             0   97    3   0            39.2    0 18.9 41.9                                     2.6 97.4    0    0
      PHF .000 .000 .000 .000                                  .000 .000 .981 .750 .000       .972 .725 .000 .700 .775        .771 .412 .903 .000 .000                                 .914     .984

                                                                                              BEMIS
                                                                                    Out         In            Total
                                                                                          0        0              0


                                                                                      0     0             0       0
                                                                                   Rght Thru       Left       Other




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                      2130


                                                 0
                                     Total




                                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                            1058
                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                0 1059
                       LITTLETON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                              LITTLETON BLVD
                                                                                               North
                                                     28 1029
                                             Other Rght Thru
                              1057
                               In




                                                                                                                                                                    1092
                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                             Left Other




                                                                                  Class 1
                                                                                                                                               33
                      1073
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                           2150
                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                   Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                     14     0  29    31


                                                                                      61          74            135
                                                                                    Out         In            Total
                                                                                              BEMIS
                                                                               All Traffic Data Services
                                                                               Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                   303-668-0220
                                                                                                                                 File Name           : #2 BEAMIS&SITEAM
                                                                                                                                 Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date          : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                                 Page No             :1
                                                                                 Groups Printed- Class 1
                         BEMIS                                            SITE ACCESS                    BEMIS                                      SITE ACCESS
                       Southbound                                          Westbound                  Northbound                                     Eastbound
Start Time    Rght      Thru  Left Other                           Rght     Thru   Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                   Rght       Thru  Left Other Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0         1    0      0                              0        0     0      0      0      2     0      0                      0          0    0      0         3
  07:15 AM       4         4    0      0                              0        0     0      2      0      5     0      0                      0          0    2      0        17
  07:30 AM       4         5    1      0                              0        0     0      0      0      5     2      0                      0          0    0      0        17
  07:45 AM       2         5    0      0                              0        0     0      0      0      7     0      0                      1          0    0      0        15
      Total     10        15    1      0                              0        0     0      2      0     19     2      0                      1          0    2      0        52

  08:00 AM      7                  6                   1       0     0        0          0       0               0        3     1     0        0          0                   0     1    19
  08:15 AM      5                  4                   1       0     0        0          0       0               0        1     0     0        0          0                   0     0    11
  08:30 AM      2                  6                   0       0     0        0          0       0               0        6     3     0        0          0                   0     1    18
  08:45 AM      1                  2                   0       0     0        0          0       0               0        6     0     2        0          0                   0     0    11
      Total    15                 18                   2       0     0        0          0       0               0       16     4     2        0          0                   0     2    59

Grand Total     25            33                 3             0     0        0          0       2               0        35     6     2      1           0                    2     2   111
 Apprch %       41          54.1               4.9             0     0        0          0     100               0      81.4    14   4.7     20           0                   40    40
   Total %    22.5          29.7               2.7             0     0        0          0     1.8               0      31.5   5.4   1.8    0.9           0                  1.8   1.8


                                                                                              BEMIS
                                                                                   Out          In              Total
                                                                                     37           61               98


                                                                                    25    33                3       0
                                                                                  Rght Thru          Left       Other
                                       36


                                                2
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                         3




                                                                                               North
                        SITE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                         SITE ACCESS
                                                           0
                                            Other Rght Thru
                                 5
                              In




                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                    10/2/2012 07:00 AM
                                                     1




                                                                                    10/2/2012 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                            Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                0
                       31




                                                                                    Class 1
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                2




                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                     2




                                                                                  Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                         6      35   0     2


                                                                                     34           43               77
                                                                                   Out          In              Total
                                                                                              BEMIS
                                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                                      File Name                   : #2 BEAMIS&SITEAM
                                                                                                                                      Site Code                   : 00000000
                                                                                                                                      Start Date                  : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                                      Page No                     :2

                         BEMIS                       SITE ACCESS                                                      BEMIS                                  SITE ACCESS
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                                    Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                              App. Total    Rght Thru Left Other          App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other                       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
 07:15 AM      4       4     0     0      8      0    0    0   2                                     2            0           5   0   0          5       0            0             2         0          2          17
 07:30 AM      4       5     1     0     10      0    0    0   0                                     0            0           5   2   0          7       0            0             0         0          0          17
 07:45 AM      2       5     0     0      7      0    0    0   0                                     0            0           7   0   0         7        1            0             0         0          1          15
 08:00 AM      7       6     1     0     14      0    0    0   0                                     0            0        3      1   0         4        0            0             0         1          1          19
 Total Volume 17     20      2     0     39      0    0    0   2                                     2            0       20      3   0        23        1            0             2         1          4          68
           43.6 51.3
 % App. Total         5.1    0                                         0    0    0 100                 0   87   13    0                           25    0   50   25
       PHF .607 .833 .500 .000                                 .696 .000 .000 .000 .250        .250 .000 .714 .375 .000                    .821 .250 .000 .250 .250                                .500          .895

                                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                                    Out            In                 Total
                                                                                      22             39                  61


                                                                                     17    20                     2       0
                                                                                   Rght Thru               Left       Other




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                       24


                                                2
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                         Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                  North
                        SITE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                                          SITE ACCESS
                                                           0
                                            Other Rght Thru
                                 4
                              In




                                                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                     1




                                                                                                                                                         Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                                   2

                                                                                  Class 1
                                                                                                                                                             0
                       20
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                  2




                                                                                   Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                          3      20   0     0


                                                                                      21             23                  44
                                                                                    Out            In                 Total
                                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                                 All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                 Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                                   File Name         : #2 BEAMIS&SITEPM
                                                                                                                                   Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                                   Page No           :1
                                                                                   Groups Printed- Class 1
                         BEMIS                                              SITE ACCESS                    BEMIS                                    SITE ACCESS
                       Southbound                                            Westbound                  Northbound                                   Eastbound
Start Time    Rght      Thru  Left Other                             Rght     Thru   Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                 Rght       Thru  Left Other Int. Total
  07:00 AM       2         9    0      0                                0        0     0      3      0      3     1      0                    0          0    3      0        21
  07:15 AM       0         6    0      2                                0        0     0      0      0      6     0      0                    0          0    5      0        19
  07:30 AM       1        14    0      1                                1        0     0      0      0      3     1      0                    0          0    3      0        24
  07:45 AM       7        19    0      2                                0        0     0      2      0     10     0      0                    0          0    6      0        46
      Total     10        48    0      5                                1        0     0      5      0     22     2      0                    0          0   17      0       110

  08:00 AM      0                 13                   0        2      0        0          0       0               0        5     0    0       1          0                   3    1     25
  08:15 AM      0                  7                   0        4      0        0          0       0               0        8     1    0       2          0                   4    0     26
  08:30 AM      2                 12                   0        2      0        0          0       1               0        5     0    0       2          0                   4    0     28
  08:45 AM      3                  7                   1        1      0        0          0       0               0        9     0    0       2          0                   5    0     28
      Total     5                 39                   1        9      0        0          0       1               0       27     1    0       7          0                  16    1    107

Grand Total     15            87                 1              14      1       0          0       6               0        49     3   0      7           0              33         1   217
 Apprch %     12.8          74.4               0.9              12   14.3       0          0    85.7               0      94.2   5.8   0   17.1           0            80.5       2.4
   Total %     6.9          40.1               0.5             6.5    0.5       0          0     2.8               0      22.6   1.4   0    3.2           0            15.2       0.5


                                                                                                BEMIS
                                                                                     Out          In              Total
                                                                                       83          117              200


                                                                                      15    87                1      14
                                                                                    Rght Thru          Left       Other
                                       59


                                              33
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                               1


                                                                                                                                                         1




                                                                                                 North
                        SITE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                         SITE ACCESS
                                                           0
                                            Other Rght Thru
                                41
                              In




                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                      10/2/2012 07:00 AM
                                                     7




                                                                                      10/2/2012 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                            Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                0
                       18




                                                                                      Class 1
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                         8
                                                                                                                                                     6




                                                                                    Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                           3      49   0     0


                                                                                       94           52              146
                                                                                     Out          In              Total
                                                                                                BEMIS
                                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                                   File Name                   : #2 BEAMIS&SITEPM
                                                                                                                                   Site Code                   : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date                  : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                                   Page No                     :2

                         BEMIS                       SITE ACCESS                                                      BEMIS                               SITE ACCESS
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                                    Northbound                               Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                              App. Total    Rght Thru Left Other       App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other                       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM      7     19      0     2     28      0    0    0   2                                     2            0       10   0   0        10        0            0             6         0          6          46
 08:00 AM      0     13      0     2     15      0    0    0   0                                     0            0        5   0   0         5        1            0           3           1         5          25
 08:15 AM      0       7     0     4     11      0    0    0   0                                     0            0        8   1   0         9        2            0           4           0         6          26
 08:30 AM      2     12      0     2     16      0    0    0   1                                     1            0        5   0   0         5        2            0           4           0         6          28
 Total Volume  9     51      0    10     70      0    0    0   3                                     3            0       28   1   0        29        5            0          17           1        23         125
           12.9 72.9
 % App. Total           0 14.3                                         0    0    0 100                 0 96.6  3.4    0                      21.7    0 73.9  4.3
       PHF .321 .671 .000 .625                                 .625 .000 .000 .000 .375        .375 .000 .700 .250 .000                 .725 .625 .000 .708 .250                                .958          .679

                                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                                    Out            In                 Total
                                                                                      45             70                 115


                                                                                      9    51                     0      10
                                                                                   Rght Thru               Left       Other




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                       33


                                              17
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                      Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                         0


                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                  North
                        SITE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                                       SITE ACCESS
                                                           0
                                            Other Rght Thru
                                23
                              In




                                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                     5




                                                                                                                                                      Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                                3

                                                                                  Class 1
                                                                                                                                                          0
                       10
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                   Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                          1      28   0     0


                                                                                      56             29                  85
                                                                                    Out            In                 Total
                                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                             File Name            : #3 BEMIS&LAKEAM
                                                                                                                             Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                             Start Date           : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                             Page No              :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- Class 1
                        BEMIS                                LAKE AVE                     BEMIS                                                   LAKE AVE
                      Southbound                             Westbound                 Northbound                                                 Eastbound
Start Time                                                                                                                                                                   Int. Total
   07:00 AM     2           0             0       0     0      11          0            5               2        1      0       0       0           7                0   0         28
   07:15 AM     1           0             0       1     0      13          0            0               0        0      2       0       0          16                0   1         34
   07:30 AM     0           1             0       0     2      21          0            1               1        1      1       0       1          10                2   0         41
   07:45 AM     0           0             0       0     1      17          1            0               1        1      1       0       0          14                0   0         36
       Total    3           1             0       1     3      62          1            6               4        3      4       0       1          47                2   1        139

   08:00 AM     3           1             0       2     1      17          1           4                1        0      1       0       0           7                1   0         39
   08:15 AM     3           0             1       0     1      16          0           1                1        0      0       1       1          10                0   0         35
   08:30 AM     1           0             0       0     2      12          1           4                2        0      2       0       0          13                2   1         40
   08:45 AM     2           1             1       0     1      16          0           2                0        0      1       2       0          12                1   1         40
       Total    9           2             2       2     5      61          2          11                4        0      4       3       1          42                4   2        154

 Grand Total   12          3         2             3     8    123          3          17              8           3      8       3     2           89                6   3        293
  Apprch %     60         15       10             15   5.3   81.5          2        11.3           36.4        13.6   36.4    13.6     2           89                6   3
    Total %    4.1         1       0.7             1   2.7     42          1         5.8            2.7           1    2.7       1   0.7          30.4               2   1



                                                                                     BEMIS
                                                                     Out               In              Total
                                                                       17                 20              37


                                                                      12     3                     2       3
                                                                    Rght Thru               Left       Other
                        243


                                    6
                       Total




                                                                                                                                     Rght Thru
                                Left




                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                        8


                                                                                                                                                     99




                                                                                     North
                                             89
                                Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                    LAKE AVE
                     LAKE AVE




                                                                                                                                           123
                         100
                         In




                                                                                                                                                       In




                                                                      10/2/2012 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                       151
                                         2




                                                                      10/2/2012 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                     Left Other
                                                                                                                                         3
                        143




                                                                      Class 1
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                    3




                                                                                                                                                              250
                                                                                                                                             17




                                                                    Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                           8           3    8    3


                                                                               8          22              30
                                                                     Out               In              Total
                                                                                     BEMIS
                                                           All Traffic Data Services
                                                           Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                 303-668-0220
                                                                                                                            File Name                    : #3 BEMIS&LAKEAM
                                                                                                                            Site Code                    : 00000000
                                                                                                                            Start Date                   : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                            Page No                      :2

                          BEMIS                         LAKE AVE                                     BEMIS                                        LAKE AVE
                       Southbound                       Westbound                                  Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other              App. Total    Rght Thru Left Other             App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other                   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      3       1     0     2        6     1  17     1    4                23             1           0    1    0          2        0    7              1            0         8          39
  08:15 AM      3       0     1     0        4     1  16     0    1                18             1           0    0    1          2        1  10               0            0        11          35
  08:30 AM      1       0     0     0        1     2  12     1    4                19             2           0    2    0          4        0  13               2            1        16          40
  08:45 AM      2       1     1     0        4     1  16     0    2                19             0           0    1    2          3        0  12               1            1        14          40
 Total Volume   9       2     2     2       15     5  61     2  11                 79             4           0    4    3         11        1  42               4            2        49         154
 % App. Total  60 13.3 13.3 13.3                 6.3 77.2 2.5 13.9                          36.4              0 36.4 27.3                   2 85.7            8.2          4.1
        PHF .750 .500 .500 .250          .625 .625 .897 .500 .688              .859 .500 .000 .500 .375                       .688 .250 .808 .500 .500                            .766          .963

                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                 Out               In                 Total
                                                                          9           15                 24


                                                                   9    2                         2       2
                                                               Rght Thru                   Left       Other




                                                             Peak Hour Data
                          123


                                      4
                         Total




                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                  Left




                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                               5


                                                                                                                                                           48
                                                                                  North
                                               42
                                  Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                          LAKE AVE
                       LAKE AVE

                             49




                                                                                                                                                   61
                           In




                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                               79
                                           1




                                                                                                                                            Left Other




                                                              Class 1
                                                                                                                                                2
                          74
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                      2




                                                                                                                                                                    127
                                                                                                                                                    11




                                                               Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                      4           0    4    3


                                                                          5           11                 16
                                                                 Out               In                 Total
                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                  All Traffic Data Services
                                                                  Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                       303-668-0220
                                                                                                                    File Name             : #3 BEMIS&LAKEPM
                                                                                                                    Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date            : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                    Page No               :1
                                                                    Groups Printed- Class 1
                        BEMIS                                  LAKE AVE                     BEMIS                                         LAKE AVE
                      Southbound                               Westbound                 Northbound                                       Eastbound
Start Time    Rght     Thru  Left Other                 Rght   Thru   Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                 Rght          Thru   Left Other Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0        0    0      0                    3     24     1      2      2      2     0      0                    0            23     1      2        60
  04:15 PM       2        2    0      0                    3     15     1      1      0      2     0      2                    1            12     1      4        46
  04:30 PM       0        4    2      1                    0     13     2      4      2      0     1      0                    0            16     2      2        49
  04:45 PM       8        1    1      0                    3     22     1      2      1      1     0      0                    1            13     0      3        57
      Total     10        7    3      1                    9     74     5      9      5      5     1      2                    2            64     4     11       212

  05:00 PM      5          1              4        2      2      28          1       6        0         0      0       0        0           15                0      0     64
  05:15 PM      5          2              2        0      1      19          0       1        0         0      2       2        1           18                1      1     55
  05:30 PM      5          4              0        1      1      28          2       6        1         1      1       0        2           16                1      0     69
  05:45 PM      3          4              1        0      1      17          0       3        0         1      2       3        0           11                1      6     53
      Total    18         11              7        3      5      92          3      16        1         2      5       5        3           60                3      7    241

Grand Total     28        18      10                4     14    166      8          25        6          7      6       7      5           124                 7     18   453
 Apprch %     46.7        30    16.7              6.7    6.6   77.9    3.8        11.7     23.1       26.9   23.1    26.9    3.2          80.5               4.5   11.7
   Total %     6.2         4     2.2              0.9    3.1   36.6    1.8         5.5      1.3        1.5    1.3     1.5    1.1          27.4               1.5      4


                                                                                  BEMIS
                                                                       Out          In       Total
                                                                         28           60        88


                                                                        28    18           10     4
                                                                      Rght Thru          Left Other
                        354


                                    7
                       Total




                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                Left




                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                               14


                                                                                                                                             140




                                                                                   North
                                            124
                                Other Rght Thru
                     LAKE AVE




                                                                                                                                            LAKE AVE
                                                                                                                                   166
                          154
                         In




                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                        10/2/2012 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                213
                                         5




                                                                        10/2/2012 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                             Left Other
                                                                                                                                 8
                        200




                                                                        Class 1
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                   18




                                                                                                                                                      353
                                                                                                                                     25




                                                                      Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                             6       7   6     7


                                                                         31           26        57
                                                                       Out          In       Total
                                                                                  BEMIS
                                                                   All Traffic Data Services
                                                                   Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                        303-668-0220
                                                                                                                             File Name                    : #3 BEMIS&LAKEPM
                                                                                                                             Site Code                    : 00000000
                                                                                                                             Start Date                   : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                             Page No                      :2

                         BEMIS                        LAKE AVE                                           BEMIS                                     LAKE AVE
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                 App. Total    Rght Thru Left Other           App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other                     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
 04:45 PM      8       1     1     0     10      3   22    1   2                      28             1           1   0   0           2       1            13           0        3        17           57
 05:00 PM      5       1     4     2     12      2   28    1   6                      37             0           0   0   0           0       0            15           0        0        15           64
 05:15 PM      5       2     2     0      9      1   19    0   1                    21               0           0   2   2           4       1            18           1        1        21           55
 05:30 PM      5       4     0     1     10      1   28    2   6                    37               1           1   1   0           3       2            16           1        0        19           69
 Total Volume 23       8     7     3     41      7   97    4  15                   123               2           2   3   2           9       4            62           2        4        72         245
           56.1 19.5 17.1
 % App. Total              7.3                          5.7 78.9  3.3 12.2             22.2 22.2 33.3 22.2                           5.6 86.1  2.8  5.6
       PHF .719 .500 .438 .375                    .854 .583 .866 .500 .625        .831 .500 .500 .375 .250                     .563 .500 .861 .500 .333                              .857          .888

                                                                                    BEMIS
                                                                       Out            In                 Total
                                                                         11             41                  52


                                                                        23     8                     7       3
                                                                      Rght Thru               Left       Other




                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                        195


                                    2
                       Total




                                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                Left




                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                7


                                                                                                                                                                 71
                                                                                     North
                                             62
                                Other Rght Thru
                     LAKE AVE




                                                                                                                                                               LAKE AVE
                           72




                                                                                                                                                    97
                         In




                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM                                                                  123
                                         4




                                                                                                                                             Left Other




                                                                     Class 1
                                                                                                                                                 4
                        123
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                    4




                                                                                                                                                                         194
                                                                                                                                                     15




                                                                      Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                             3       2   2     2


                                                                         16              9                  25
                                                                       Out            In                 Total
                                                                                    BEMIS
                                          All Traffic Data Services, Inc                        Page 1
                                                9660 W 44th Ave
                                            Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                              www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                          Site Code: 4
                                                                                          Station ID: 4
                                                                           BEMIS S/O LITTLETON BLVD



Start       02-Oct-12                                                                            Total
Time           Tue        NB       SB
12:00 AM                    0        0                                                                    0
    12:15                   0        2                                                                    2
    12:30                   0        0                                                                    0
    12:45                   0        0                                                                    0
    01:00                   2        1                                                                    3
    01:15                   0        0                                                                    0
    01:30                   0        0                                                                    0
    01:45                   0        0                                                                    0
    02:00                   0        0                                                                    0
    02:15                   0        0                                                                    0
    02:30                   0        0                                                                    0
    02:45                   0        1                                                                    1
    03:00                   0        0                                                                    0
    03:15                   0        0                                                                    0
    03:30                   0        0                                                                    0
    03:45                   0        0                                                                    0
    04:00                   1        0                                                                    1
    04:15                   0        0                                                                    0
    04:30                   0        0                                                                    0
    04:45                   1        0                                                                    1
    05:00                   0        0                                                                    0
    05:15                   1        0                                                                    1
    05:30                   3        1                                                                    4
    05:45                   1        1                                                                    2
    06:00                   0        0                                                                    0
    06:15                   1        1                                                                    2
    06:30                   6        0                                                                    6
    06:45                   4        2                                                                    6
    07:00                   4        6                                                                   10
    07:15                   5        9                                                                   14
    07:30                   4        6                                                                   10
    07:45                   5       15                                                                   20
    08:00                   7        7                                                                   14
    08:15                   4       13                                                                   17
    08:30                   2       13                                                                   15
    08:45                   4         9                                                               13
    09:00                   5         5                                                               10
    09:15                   5         7                                                               12
    09:30                   5         6                                                               11
    09:45                   8        11                                                               19
    10:00                   8         6                                                               14
    10:15                   5         4                                                                9
    10:30                   4         7                                                               11
    10:45                   7         5                                                               12
    11:00                   5         4                                                                9
    11:15                   7         7                                                               14
    11:30                   7         8                                                               15
    11:45                  12         8                                                               20
    Total                  133      165                                                              298
  Percent               44.6%    55.4%
    Peak                 11:00    07:45                                                            07:45
     Vol.                   31       48                                                               66
   P.H.F.                0.646    0.800                                                            0.825
                                                  All Traffic Data Services, Inc                        Page 2
                                                        9660 W 44th Ave
                                                    Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                      www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                  Site Code: 4
                                                                                                  Station ID: 4
                                                                                   BEMIS S/O LITTLETON BLVD



Start          02-Oct-12                                                                                 Total
Time              Tue        NB          SB
12:00 PM                       7              9                                                                  16
    12:15                      6              6                                                                  12
    12:30                      9              4                                                                  13
    12:45                     11             13                                                                  24
    01:00                      7             18                                                                  25
    01:15                     16             10                                                                  26
    01:30                      7             14                                                                  21
    01:45                      4              5                                                                   9
    02:00                      4              8                                                                  12
    02:15                      4              7                                                                  11
    02:30                     10              6                                                                  16
    02:45                      8             12                                                                  20
    03:00                      5              1                                                                   6
    03:15                     18              5                                                                  23
    03:30                      6              5                                                                  11
    03:45                      7              5                                                                  12
    04:00                      6             12                                                                  18
    04:15                      6             15                                                                  21
    04:30                     13              5                                                                  18
    04:45                      6             14                                                                  20
    05:00                     11             20                                                                  31
    05:15                     12             22                                                                  34
    05:30                     13              6                                                                  19
    05:45                     10          14                                                                     24
    06:00                     12          12                                                                  24
    06:15                     19          12                                                                  31
    06:30                       5          9                                                                  14
    06:45                       6          7                                                                  13
    07:00                      19         14                                                                  33
    07:15                      10         12                                                                  22
    07:30                       8          3                                                                  11
    07:45                       2          3                                                                   5
    08:00                       7          3                                                                  10
    08:15                       2          7                                                                   9
    08:30                       6          3                                                                   9
    08:45                       3          1                                                                   4
    09:00                       1          6                                                                   7
    09:15                       1          1                                                                   2
    09:30                       2          2                                                                   4
    09:45                       0          1                                                                   1
    10:00                       3          1                                                                   4
    10:15                       1          0                                                                   1
    10:30                       1          3                                                                   4
    10:45                       4          4                                                                   8
    11:00                       0          1                                                                   1
    11:15                       0          1                                                                   1
    11:30                       0          0                                                                   0
    11:45                       0          0                                                                   0
    Total                     318        342                                                                 660
  Percent                  48.2%      51.8%
    Peak                    17:30      16:45                                                               17:00
      Vol.                     54         62                                                                 108
   P.H.F.                   0.711      0.705                                                               0.794
       Total                       451        507                                                              958
     Percent                     47.1%      52.9%

        ADT                        ADT 958                    AADT 958
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX B           EXISTING LEVELS OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                                   Appendix B
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                 Existing AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                       10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   0.3

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL      WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                            945       27     17      678               4     14
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0        0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free     Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None     None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                        0      0
Median Width                              12                       12             12
Grade (%)                                0%                       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                        0.92    0.92   0.92      0.92           0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                          2       2      2         2              2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1027      29     18      737               4     15
Number of Lanes                            2       0      1         2              1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                  Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1056          0         1447    529
         Stage 1                            -      -       -         -         1042       -
         Stage 2                            -      -       -         -          405       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -    2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    655          -          122    494
         Stage 1                            -      -       -         -          301       -
         Stage 2                            -      -       -         -          642       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -       0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    655          -          119    494
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -       -         -          119       -
         Stage 1                            -      -       -         -          301       -
         Stage 2                            -      -       -         -          624       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                      NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.3                    18.3
HCM LOS                                    A              A                      C

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR       WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           291
HCM Control Delay (s)                   18.3       -       - 10.656        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.067       -       - 0.028         -
HCM Lane LOS                               C       -       -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        0.215       -       - 0.087         -




                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                        RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                    Existing AM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                             10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):     0.8

Movement                         EBL            EBR      NBL      NBT             SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                        2              1       3       20              20       17
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)             0              0       0        0               0        0
Sign Control                    Stop            Stop    Free     Free            Free     Free
Right Turn Channelized          None            None    None     None            None     None
Storage Length                      0              0       0                                 0
Median Width                       12                                0               0
Grade (%)                         0%                               0%              0%
Peak Hour Factor                 0.92            0.92    0.92     0.92            0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                   2               2       2        2               2       2
Movement Flow Rate                  2               1       3       22              22      18
Number of Lanes                     1               0       0        1               1       0

Major/Minor                                                     Major 1         Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All        59              31      40         0               0      0
         Stage 1                   31               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                   28               -       -         -               -      -
Follow-up Headway               3.518           3.318   2.218         -               -      -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver           948           1043    1570          -               -      -
         Stage 1                  992               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  995               -       -         -               -      -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)             0               0       0         -               -      -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver           946           1043    1570          -               -      -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver           946               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 1                  992               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  993               -       -         -               -      -

Approach                          EB                      NB                        SB
HCM Control Delay (s)             8.7                      1                         0
HCM LOS                             A                      A                         A

Lane                                     NBL    NBT EBLn1         SBT     SBR
Capacity (vph)                                         976
HCM Control Delay (s)                   7.298     -    8.7            -     -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                       0.002     - 0.003             -     -
HCM Lane LOS                                A     -      A            -     -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)         0.006     -   0.01            -     -




                                                                                                 Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                           RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                         Existing AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.3
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                      4      42      1      2     61      5      4      0      4      2         2       9
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate                4      46      1      2     66      5      4      0      4      2         2      10
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.3                    7.3                 7.1                  6.9
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         50%    9%    3%   15%
Volume Thru (%)                          0%   89%   90%   15%
Volume Right (%)                        50%    2%    7%   69%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                     8    47    68    13
Left Turning Volume                        0    42    61      2
Through Volume                             4     1      5     9
Right Turning Volume                       4     4      2     2
Lane Flow Rate                             9    51    74    14
Geometry Group                             1     1      1     1
Degree of Utilization, X                0.01 0.057 0.082 0.015
Departure Headway, Hd                  3.961 4.035 3.975 3.771
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 897   888   902   941
Service Time                           2.016 2.056 1.993 1.827
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                      0.01 0.057 0.082 0.015
HCM Control Delay                        7.1   7.3    7.3   6.9
HCM Lane LOS                               A     A      A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                  0   0.2   0.3      0




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                 Existing PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                       10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   0.9

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL      WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                           1029       28     33     1059              14     29
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0        0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free     Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None     None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                        0      0
Median Width                              12                       12             12
Grade (%)                                0%                       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                        0.92    0.92   0.92      0.92           0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                          2       2      2         2              2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1118      30     36      1151             15     32
Number of Lanes                            2       0      1         2              1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                  Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1148          0         1781    574
         Stage 1                            -      -       -         -         1133       -
         Stage 2                            -      -       -         -          648       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -    2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    604          -            73   462
         Stage 1                            -      -       -         -          269       -
         Stage 2                            -      -       -         -          483       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -       0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    604          -            69   462
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -       -         -            69      -
         Stage 1                            -      -       -         -          269       -
         Stage 2                            -      -       -         -          454       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                       NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.3                      36
HCM LOS                                    A              A                       E

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR       WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           162
HCM Control Delay (s)                     36       -       - 11.336        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.289       -       - 0.059         -
HCM Lane LOS                               E       -       -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        1.128       -       - 0.189         -




                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                        RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                    Existing PM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                             10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):     1.9

Movement                         EBL            EBR      NBL      NBT             SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                       17              5       1       28              51        9
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)             0              0       0        0               0        0
Sign Control                    Stop            Stop    Free     Free            Free     Free
Right Turn Channelized          None            None    None     None            None     None
Storage Length                      0              0       0                                 0
Median Width                       12                                0               0
Grade (%)                         0%                               0%              0%
Peak Hour Factor                 0.92            0.92    0.92     0.92            0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                   2               2       2        2               2       2
Movement Flow Rate                 18               5       1       30              55      10
Number of Lanes                     1               0       0        1               1       0

Major/Minor                                                     Major 1         Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All        92              60      65         0               0      0
         Stage 1                   60               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                   32               -       -         -               -      -
Follow-up Headway               3.518           3.318   2.218         -               -      -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver           908           1005    1537          -               -      -
         Stage 1                  963               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  991               -       -         -               -      -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)             0               0       0         -               -      -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver           907           1005    1537          -               -      -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver           907               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 1                  963               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  990               -       -         -               -      -

Approach                          EB                      NB                        SB
HCM Control Delay (s)              9                      0.3                        0
HCM LOS                            A                        A                        A

Lane                                     NBL    NBT EBLn1         SBT     SBR
Capacity (vph)                                        928
HCM Control Delay (s)                   7.344     -     9             -     -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                       0.001     - 0.026             -     -
HCM Lane LOS                                A     -     A             -     -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)         0.002     - 0.079             -     -




                                                                                                 Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                           RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                         Existing PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.5
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                      2      62      4      4     97      7      3      2      2      7         8      23
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate                2      67      4      4    105      8      3      2      2      8         9      25
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.5                    7.7                 7.3                  7.2
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         43%    3%    4%   18%
Volume Thru (%)                         29%   91%   90%   21%
Volume Right (%)                        29%    6%    6%   61%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                     7    68   108    38
Left Turning Volume                        2    62    97      8
Through Volume                             2     4      7   23
Right Turning Volume                       3     2      4     7
Lane Flow Rate                             8    74   117    41
Geometry Group                             1     1      1     1
Degree of Utilization, X               0.009 0.084 0.132 0.045
Departure Headway, Hd                   4.21 4.079 4.045 3.942
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 836   874   884   894
Service Time                           2.306 2.123  2.08 2.031
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                      0.01 0.085 0.132 0.046
HCM Control Delay                        7.3   7.5    7.7   7.2
HCM Lane LOS                               A     A      A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                  0   0.3   0.5   0.1




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX C           2014 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                                   Appendix C
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                  2014 Background AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      0.3

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                             945       17       10     678                 4          12
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1027       18       11     737                 4          13

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1046        0             1426        523
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1036           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               390          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     661        -               126       499
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               303          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               653          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     661        -              124         499
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -              124           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              303           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              642           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.2                       18.5
HCM LOS                                                                              C

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        284       -        -    661        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.061       -        - 0.016         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  18.5       -        - 10.537        -
HCM Lane LOS                              C                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.195        -       -   0.05          -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                        2014 Background AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.3
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       4       42       1        2       61       5         4          0      4      2         2         9
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        4       46       1        2       66       5         4          0      4      2         2        10
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.3                       7.3                       7.1                      6.9
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            50%    9%    3%   15%
Vol Thru, %                             0%   89%   90%   15%
Vol Right, %                           50%    2%    7%   69%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                       8    47    68    13
LT Vol                                    0    42    61     2
Through Vol                               4     1     5     9
RT Vol                                    4     4     2     2
Lane Flow Rate                            9    51    74    14
Geometry Grp                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Util (X)                     0.01 0.057 0.082 0.015
Departure Headway (Hd)                3.961 4.035 3.975 3.771
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     897   888   902   941
Service Time                          2.016 2.056 1.993 1.827
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.01 0.057 0.082 0.015
HCM Control Delay                       7.1   7.3   7.3   6.9
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A     A     A
HCM 95th-tile Q                           0   0.2   0.3     0
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                  2014 Background PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      0.5

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                            1029       24       28    1059                 9          17
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1118       26       30    1151                10          18

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1145        0             1768        572
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1132           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               636          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     606        -                75       463
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               270          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               489          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     606        -               71         463
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -               71           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              270           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              465           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.3                       32.5
HCM LOS                                                                              D

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        159       -        -    606        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.178       -        -   0.05        -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  32.5       -        - 11.254        -
HCM Lane LOS                              D                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.625        -       - 0.158           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                        2014 Background PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.5
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       2       62       4        4       97       7         3          2      2      7         8        23
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        2       67       4        4      105       8         3          2      2      8         9        25
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.5                       7.7                       7.3                      7.2
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            43%    3%    4%   18%
Vol Thru, %                            29%   91%   90%   21%
Vol Right, %                           29%    6%    6%   61%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                       7    68   108    38
LT Vol                                    2    62    97     8
Through Vol                               2     4      7   23
RT Vol                                    3     2      4    7
Lane Flow Rate                            8    74   117    41
Geometry Grp                              1     1      1    1
Degree of Util (X)                    0.009 0.084 0.132 0.045
Departure Headway (Hd)                 4.21 4.079 4.045 3.942
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     836   874   884   894
Service Time                          2.306 2.123  2.08 2.031
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.01 0.085 0.132 0.046
HCM Control Delay                       7.3   7.5    7.7  7.2
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A      A    A
HCM 95th-tile Q                           0   0.3    0.5  0.1
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX D           2035 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                                   Appendix D
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                  2035 Background AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      0.3

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                            1060       20       10     760                 5          15
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1152       22       11     826                 5          16

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1174        0             1598        587
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1163           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               435          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     591        -                97       453
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               260          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               620          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     591        -               95         453
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -               95           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              260           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              608           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.1                        22
HCM LOS                                                                              C

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        233       -        -    591        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.093       -        - 0.018         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                    22       -        - 11.205        -
HCM Lane LOS                              C                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.305        -       - 0.056           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                        2035 Background AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.4
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       5       45       5        5       70       5         5          5      5      5         5        10
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        5       49       5        5       76       5         5          5      5      5         5        11
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.4                       7.5                       7.2                      7.1
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            33%    9%    6%   25%
Vol Thru, %                            33%   82%   88%   25%
Vol Right, %                           33%    9%    6%   50%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                      15    55    80    20
LT Vol                                    5    45    70     5
Through Vol                               5     5     5    10
RT Vol                                    5     5     5     5
Lane Flow Rate                           16    60    87    22
Geometry Grp                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Util (X)                    0.018 0.067 0.097 0.024
Departure Headway (Hd)                4.069 4.027 4.018 3.948
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     870   887   890   897
Service Time                          2.139 2.062 2.048 2.017
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.018 0.068 0.098 0.025
HCM Control Delay                       7.2   7.4   7.5   7.1
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A     A     A
HCM 95th-tile Q                         0.1   0.2   0.3   0.1
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                  2035 Background PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      0.7

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                            1155       25       30    1190                10          20
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1255       27       33    1293                11          22

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1283        0             1981        641
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1269           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               712          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     537        -                54       417
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               228          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               447          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     537        -               51         417
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -               51           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              228           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              420           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.3                       44.5
HCM LOS                                                                               E

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        123       -        -    537        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.265       -        - 0.061         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  44.5       -        - 12.137        -
HCM Lane LOS                              E                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.995        -       - 0.193           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                        2035 Background PM
7: Bemis St & Lake Ave                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.7
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       5       70       5        5      110      10         5          5      5     10        10        25
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        5       76       5        5      120      11         5          5      5     11        11        27
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.7                       7.9                       7.4                      7.4
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            33%    6%    4%   22%
Vol Thru, %                            33%   88%   88%   22%
Vol Right, %                           33%    6%    8%   56%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                      15    80   125    45
LT Vol                                    5    70   110    10
Through Vol                               5     5    10    25
RT Vol                                    5     5      5   10
Lane Flow Rate                           16    87   136    49
Geometry Grp                              1     1      1    1
Degree of Util (X)                     0.02   0.1 0.154 0.056
Departure Headway (Hd)                 4.34 4.124 4.071 4.149
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     830   860   874   868
Service Time                          2.341 2.191 2.129  2.15
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.019 0.101 0.156 0.056
HCM Control Delay                       7.4   7.7    7.9  7.4
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A      A    A
HCM 95th-tile Q                         0.1   0.3    0.5  0.2
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX E           WARRANT 3 CHART ­ PEAK HOUR




                                                                                   Appendix E
HIGH VOLUME APPROACH - BEMIS STREET


                                      600
                                                                       2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES
       VEHICLES PER HOUR (VPH)



                                      500



                                                                                    2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE
            MINOR STREET

                                      400




                                                                                               1 LANE & 1 LANE
                                      300
                                      200




                                                                                                                                                                                                150 
                                                                                                                                                                                                100 
                                      100




                                       400   500   600   700   800     900   1000   1100   1200       1300   1400   1500    1600     1700   1800   1900   2000    2100   2200   2300   2400   2500


                                                               MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES - LITTLETON BOULEVARD
                                                                                   VEHICLES PER HOUR (VPH)

                                                                      Note:150 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street
                                                                      approach with two or more lanes and 100 vph applies as the lower
                                                                      threshold volume for a minor street approach with one lane.



                                                                 LEGEND                                                Warrant Volumes
                                                                                                                                     Major          Minor
                                                                       = AM Peak Hour
                                                                       = PM Peak Hour
                                                                                           }   2014                     2014 AM
                                                                                                                           2014 PM
                                                                                                                                     1671
                                                                                                                                            2213
                                                                                                                                                     89
                                                                                                                                                     67
                                                                       = AM Peak Hour
                                                                       = PM Peak Hour
                                                                                           }   2035                        2035 AM
                                                                                                                           2035 PM
                                                                                                                                            1871
                                                                                                                                            2473
                                                                                                                                                     93
                                                                                                                                                     71

                                                                                                                                                                                          Warrant 3
                                                                                                                                                                                         Peak Hour
                                                                                                                                                                 Littleton Boulevard/Bemis Street
                            FELSBURG                                                                                                                                         Total Traffic Volumes
                            H O LT &
                            ULLE VI G
    Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 8/8/13
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX F           2014 BUILDOUT LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                                   Appendix F
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                        2014 Total AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      1.9

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                             945       26       22     678                36          53
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1027       28       24     737                39          58

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1055        0             1457        528
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1041           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               416          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     656        -               120       495
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               301          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               634          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     656        -              116         495
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -              116           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              301           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              611           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.3                       35.2
HCM LOS                                                                               E

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        213       -        -    656        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.454       -        - 0.036         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  35.2       -        - 10.695        -
HCM Lane LOS                              E                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 2.172        -       - 0.113           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                               2014 Total AM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                                            8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      5.2

Movement                      EBL              EBR      NBL      NBT                          SBT    SBR
Vol, veh/h                      73                8        2      20                            20     21
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0                0        0       0                             0      0
Sign Control                  Stop             Stop     Free    Free                          Free   Free
RT Channelized                   -             None        -    None                             -   None
Storage Length                   0                -        -       -                             -      -
Veh in Median Storage, #         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Grade, %                         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Peak Hour Factor                92               92       92      92                            92     92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2                2        2       2                             2      2
Mvmt Flow                       79                9        2      22                            22     23

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Major1                            Major2
Conflicting Flow All            59                33       45       0                         -         0
         Stage 1                33                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2                26                 -        -       -                         -         -
Follow-up Headway            3.518             3.318    2.218       -                         -         -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        948             1041     1563        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               989                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2               997                 -        -       -                         -         -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                             -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        947             1041     1563        -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        947                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               989                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 2               996                -        -        -                         -         -

Approach                       EB                         NB                                   SB
HCM Control Delay, s           9.1                        0.7                                   0
HCM LOS                          A

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT EBLn1        SBT      SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1563        -   956          -         -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.001       - 0.092          -         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 7.306       0    9.1         -         -
HCM Lane LOS                              A       A      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.004       - 0.303            -       -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                        RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                                2014 Total AM
7: Bemis St & Lake Ave                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.3
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       5       42       1        2       61       6         4          1      4      3         3        13
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        5       46       1        2       66       7         4          1      4      3         3        14
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.3                       7.4                       7.1                      6.9
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            44%   10%    3%   16%
Vol Thru, %                            11%   88%   88%   16%
Vol Right, %                           44%    2%    9%   68%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                       9    48    69    19
LT Vol                                    1    42    61     3
Through Vol                               4     1     6    13
RT Vol                                    4     5     2     3
Lane Flow Rate                           10    52    75    21
Geometry Grp                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Util (X)                    0.011 0.059 0.083 0.022
Departure Headway (Hd)                3.991 4.052 3.979 3.782
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     889   884   901   938
Service Time                          2.051 2.077 2.002 1.839
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.011 0.059 0.083 0.022
HCM Control Delay                       7.1   7.3   7.4   6.9
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A     A     A
HCM 95th-tile Q                           0   0.2   0.3   0.1
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                        2014 Total AM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                     8/7/2013




Movement                      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT       NBL    NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                945        26       22    678        36      53
Number                           2       12        1      6         3      18
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0        0        0      0         0       0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)                    1.00    1.00              1.00    1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        186.3    190.0   186.3    186.3    186.3   190.0
Lanes                            2        0        1        2       1       0
Cap, veh/h                   3120        85     572     3513        0       0
Arrive On Green               0.86     0.86    0.02     0.94     0.00    0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h              3610        98    1774     3725        0       0
Grp Volume(v), veh/h          530      525        24     737        0       0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1863     1845    1774     1863         0       0
Q Serve(g_s), s                3.8      3.8      0.1      1.0     0.0     0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          3.8      3.8      0.1     1.0      0.0     0.0
Prop In Lane                           0.05    1.00              0.00    0.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h       1610     1595      572    3513         0       0
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.33     0.33     0.04    0.21     0.00    0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h        1610     1595      636    3513         0       0
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00      0.00    0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh       0.9      0.9      0.5     0.1      0.0     0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.5      0.6      0.0     0.1      0.0     0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
%ile Back of Q (50%), veh/ln   0.8      0.8      0.0     0.1      0.0     0.0
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh      1.4      1.5      0.5     0.3      0.0     0.0
Lane Grp LOS                     A        A        A       A
Approach Vol, veh/h          1055                       761         0
Approach Delay, s/veh          1.4                       0.3      0.0
Approach LOS                     A                         A
Timer
Assigned Phs                      2               1        6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s       64.5             5.5     70.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s         4.0             4.0      4.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s    58.0             4.0     66.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s    5.8             2.1      3.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s        19.7             0.0     20.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                             1.0
HCM 2010 LOS                                      A
Notes
User approved volume balancing among the lanes for turning movement.




                                                                                          Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                    RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                        2014 Total PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      2.6

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                            1029       56       69    1059                27          40
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1118       61       75    1151                29          43

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1179        0             1875        590
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1149           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               726          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     588        -                63       451
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               264          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               440          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     588        -               55         451
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -               55           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              264           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              384           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.7                       77.9
HCM LOS                                                                               F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        116       -        -    588        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.628       -        - 0.128         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  77.9       -        - 12.016        -
HCM Lane LOS                              F                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 3.183        -       - 0.436           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                               2014 Total PM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                                            8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      2.4

Movement                      EBL              EBR      NBL      NBT                          SBT    SBR
Vol, veh/h                      41                4        8      28                            51     73
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0                0        0       0                             0      0
Sign Control                  Stop             Stop     Free    Free                          Free   Free
RT Channelized                   -             None        -    None                             -   None
Storage Length                   0                -        -       -                             -      -
Veh in Median Storage, #         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Grade, %                         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Peak Hour Factor                92               92       92      92                            92     92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2                2        2       2                             2      2
Mvmt Flow                       45                4        9      30                            55     79

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Major1                            Major2
Conflicting Flow All           143                95      135       0                         -         0
         Stage 1                95                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2                48                 -        -       -                         -         -
Follow-up Headway            3.518             3.318    2.218       -                         -         -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        850               962    1449        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               929                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2               974                 -        -       -                         -         -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                             -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        845              962     1449        -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        845                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               929                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 2               968                -        -        -                         -         -

Approach                       EB                         NB                                   SB
HCM Control Delay, s           9.5                        1.7                                   0
HCM LOS                          A

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT EBLn1        SBT      SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1449        -   854          -         -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.006       - 0.057          -         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 7.499       0    9.5         -         -
HCM Lane LOS                              A       A      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.018       - 0.182            -       -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                        RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                                2014 Total PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.6
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       6       62       4        4       97      10         3          3      3      8         9        25
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        7       67       4        4      105      11         3          3      3      9        10        27
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.6                       7.7                       7.3                      7.3
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            33%    8%    4%   19%
Vol Thru, %                            33%   86%   87%   21%
Vol Right, %                           33%    6%    9%   60%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                       9    72   111    42
LT Vol                                    3    62    97     9
Through Vol                               3     4    10    25
RT Vol                                    3     6      4    8
Lane Flow Rate                           10    78   121    46
Geometry Grp                              1     1      1    1
Degree of Util (X)                    0.012 0.089 0.136  0.05
Departure Headway (Hd)                 4.28 4.107 4.045 3.964
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     841   868   883   888
Service Time                           2.28 2.155 2.085 2.058
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.012  0.09 0.137 0.052
HCM Control Delay                       7.3   7.6    7.7  7.3
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A      A    A
HCM 95th-tile Q                           0   0.3    0.5  0.2
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                       2014 Total PM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                    8/7/2013




Movement                      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT      NBL    NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)               1029        56      69    1059       27      40
Number                           2       12       1       6        3      18
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0        0       0       0        0       0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)                    1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        186.3    190.0   186.3    186.3   186.3   190.0
Lanes                            2        0       1        2       1       0
Cap, veh/h                   2947      161     544      3513       0       0
Arrive On Green               0.84     0.84    0.04     0.94    0.00    0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h              3501      191    1774      3725       0       0
Grp Volume(v), veh/h          595      584       75    1151        0       0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1863     1829    1774     1863        0       0
Q Serve(g_s), s                5.2      5.2     0.3      1.8     0.0     0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          5.2      5.2     0.3      1.8     0.0     0.0
Prop In Lane                           0.10    1.00             0.00    0.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h       1568     1540     544     3513        0       0
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.38     0.38    0.14     0.33    0.00    0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h        1568     1540     618     3513        0       0
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00     0.00    0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh       1.3      1.3     0.7      0.2     0.0     0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.7      0.7     0.1      0.2     0.0     0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
%ile Back of Q (50%), veh/ln   1.5      1.4     0.0      0.1     0.0     0.0
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh      2.0      2.0     0.8      0.4     0.0     0.0
Lane Grp LOS                     A        A       A        A
Approach Vol, veh/h          1179                      1226        0
Approach Delay, s/veh          2.0                       0.4     0.0
Approach LOS                     A                         A
Timer
Assigned Phs                      2               1        6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s       62.9             7.1     70.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s         4.0             4.0      4.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s    56.0             6.0     66.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s    7.2             2.3      3.8
Green Ext Time (p_c), s        29.1             0.0     33.1
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                             1.2
HCM 2010 LOS                                      A
Notes
User approved volume balancing among the lanes for turning movement.




                                                                                         Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                   RyanG
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX G           2035 BUILDOUT LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                                   Appendix G
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                        2035 Total AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      2.6

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                            1060       29       22     760                37          56
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1152       32       24     826                40          61

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1184        0             1629        592
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1168           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               461          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     586        -                93       449
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               258          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               601          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     586        -               89         449
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -               89           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              258           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              576           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.3                       52.1
HCM LOS                                                                               F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                        172       -        -    586        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.588       -        - 0.041         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  52.1       -        - 11.405        -
HCM Lane LOS                              F                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 3.154        -       - 0.127           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                 RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                               2035 Total AM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                                            8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      4.9

Movement                      EBL              EBR      NBL      NBT                          SBT    SBR
Vol, veh/h                      73                8        2      20                            30     21
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0                0        0       0                             0      0
Sign Control                  Stop             Stop     Free    Free                          Free   Free
RT Channelized                   -             None        -    None                             -   None
Storage Length                   0                -        -       -                             -      -
Veh in Median Storage, #         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Grade, %                         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Peak Hour Factor                92               92       92      92                            92     92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2                2        2       2                             2      2
Mvmt Flow                       79                9        2      22                            33     23

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Major1                            Major2
Conflicting Flow All            70                44       55       0                         -         0
         Stage 1                44                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2                26                 -        -       -                         -         -
Follow-up Headway            3.518             3.318    2.218       -                         -         -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        934             1026     1550        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               978                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2               997                 -        -       -                         -         -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                             -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        933             1026     1550        -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        933                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               978                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 2               996                -        -        -                         -         -

Approach                       EB                         NB                                   SB
HCM Control Delay, s           9.2                        0.7                                   0
HCM LOS                          A

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT EBLn1        SBT      SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1550        -   941          -         -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.001       - 0.094          -         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 7.326       0    9.2         -         -
HCM Lane LOS                              A       A      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.004       - 0.309            -       -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                        RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                                2035 Total AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.4
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       6       45       5        5       70       8         5          5      5      8         6        14
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                        7       49       5        5       76       9         5          5      5      9         7        15
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.4                       7.5                       7.2                      7.2
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            33%   11%    6%   29%
Vol Thru, %                            33%   80%   84%   21%
Vol Right, %                           33%    9%   10%   50%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                      15    56    83    28
LT Vol                                    5    45    70     6
Through Vol                               5     5     8    14
RT Vol                                    5     6     5     8
Lane Flow Rate                           16    61    90    30
Geometry Grp                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Util (X)                    0.018 0.068 0.101 0.034
Departure Headway (Hd)                4.084  4.05 4.014 3.963
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     866   881   890   893
Service Time                          2.158  2.09 2.048 2.033
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.018 0.069 0.101 0.034
HCM Control Delay                       7.2   7.4   7.5   7.2
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A     A     A
HCM 95th-tile Q                         0.1   0.2   0.3   0.1
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                        2035 Total AM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                     8/7/2013




Movement                      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT       NBL    NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)               1060        29      22     760        37      56
Number                           2       12       1       6         3      18
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0        0       0       0         0       0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)                    1.00    1.00              1.00    1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        186.3    190.0   186.3    186.3    186.3   190.0
Lanes                            2        0       1         2       1       0
Cap, veh/h                   3118        87     518     3513        0       0
Arrive On Green               0.86     0.86    0.02     0.94     0.00    0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h              3608      100    1774      3725        0       0
Grp Volume(v), veh/h          595      589       24      826        0       0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1863     1845    1774     1863         0       0
Q Serve(g_s), s                4.5      4.5     0.1       1.1     0.0     0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          4.5      4.5     0.1      1.1      0.0     0.0
Prop In Lane                           0.05    1.00              0.00    0.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h       1610     1595     518     3513         0       0
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.37     0.37    0.05     0.24     0.00    0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h        1610     1595     582     3513         0       0
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00      0.00    0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh       0.9      0.9     0.6      0.1      0.0     0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.7      0.7     0.0      0.2      0.0     0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
%ile Back of Q (50%), veh/ln   1.0      0.9     0.0      0.1      0.0     0.0
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh      1.6      1.6     0.6      0.3      0.0     0.0
Lane Grp LOS                     A        A       A        A
Approach Vol, veh/h          1184                       850         0
Approach Delay, s/veh          1.6                       0.3      0.0
Approach LOS                     A                         A
Timer
Assigned Phs                      2               1        6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s       64.5             5.5     70.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s         4.0             4.0      4.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s    58.0             4.0     66.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s    6.5             2.1      3.1
Green Ext Time (p_c), s        23.8             0.0     25.6
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                             1.1
HCM 2010 LOS                                      A
Notes
User approved volume balancing among the lanes for turning movement.




                                                                                          Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                    RyanG
Queues                                                  2035 Total AM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                             8/7/2013



Lane Group                EBT     WBL    WBT     NBL
Lane Group Flow (vph)     1184      24    826    101
v/c Ratio                  0.53   0.09   0.35    0.21
Control Delay              12.0    6.6     8.1   14.6
Queue Delay                 0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Delay                12.0    6.6     8.1   14.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)     181       5    110      19
Queue Length 95th (ft)     294      13    142      60
Internal Link Dist (ft)   1000           1035    265
Turn Bay Length (ft)                50
Base Capacity (vph)       2215    256    2335    481
Starvation Cap Reductn       0       0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn        0       0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn          0       0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio         0.53    0.09   0.35    0.21
Intersection Summary




                                                                  Synchro 8 Report
                                                                            RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                        2035 Total PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                                  8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      4.9

Movement                              EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT               NBL         NBR
Vol, veh/h                            1155       57       71    1190                28          43
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                   0        0        0       0                 0           0
Sign Control                          Free     Free     Free    Free              Stop        Stop
RT Channelized                           -     None        -    None                 -        None
Storage Length                           -        -       50       -                 0           -
Veh in Median Storage, #                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Grade, %                                 0        -        -       0                 0           -
Peak Hour Factor                        92       92       92      92                92          92
Heavy Vehicles, %                        2        2        2       2                 2           2
Mvmt Flow                             1255       62       77    1293                30          47

Major/Minor                          Major1            Major2                    Minor1
Conflicting Flow All                      0        0    1317        0             2087        659
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -             1286           -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               801          -
Follow-up Headway                         -        -     2.22       -              3.52       3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     521        -                45       406
         Stage 1                          -        -        -       -               223          -
         Stage 2                          -        -        -       -               402          -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                   -        -                -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                   -        -     521        -               38         406
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                   -        -       -        -               38           -
         Stage 1                          -        -       -        -              223           -
         Stage 2                          -        -       -        -              343           -

Approach                                EB               WB                         NB
HCM Control Delay, s                     0               0.7                      163.9
HCM LOS                                                                               F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt              NBLn1      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT
Capacity (veh/h)                         84       -        -    521        -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.919       -        - 0.148         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 163.9       -        - 13.108        -
HCM Lane LOS                              F                       B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  4.97        -       - 0.517           -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                       Synchro 8 Report
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                               2035 Total PM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                                            8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      2.3

Movement                      EBL              EBR      NBL      NBT                          SBT    SBR
Vol, veh/h                      41                4        8      30                            55     73
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0                0        0       0                             0      0
Sign Control                  Stop             Stop     Free    Free                          Free   Free
RT Channelized                   -             None        -    None                             -   None
Storage Length                   0                -        -       -                             -      -
Veh in Median Storage, #         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Grade, %                         0                -        -       0                             0      -
Peak Hour Factor                92               92       92      92                            92     92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2                2        2       2                             2      2
Mvmt Flow                       45                4        9      33                            60     79

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Major1                            Major2
Conflicting Flow All           149                99      139       0                         -         0
         Stage 1                99                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2                50                 -        -       -                         -         -
Follow-up Headway            3.518             3.318    2.218       -                         -         -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        843               957    1445        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               925                 -        -       -                         -         -
         Stage 2               972                 -        -       -                         -         -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                             -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        838              957     1445        -                         -         -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        838                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 1               925                -        -        -                         -         -
         Stage 2               966                -        -        -                         -         -

Approach                       EB                         NB                                   SB
HCM Control Delay, s           9.5                        1.6                                   0
HCM LOS                          A

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT EBLn1        SBT      SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1445        -   847          -         -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.006       - 0.058          -         -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 7.506       0    9.5         -         -
HCM Lane LOS                              A       A      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.018       - 0.184            -       -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                                2035 Total PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                                       8/7/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      7.8
Intersection LOS                 A
Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                       9       70       5        5      110      13         5          6      5     11        11        12
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92       0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92      0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %                2        2       2        2        2       2         2          2      2      2         2         2
Mvmt Flow                       10       76       5        5      120      14         5          7      5     12        12        13
Number of Lanes                  0        1       0        0        1       0         0          1      0      0         1         0

Approach                       EB                        WB                        NB                       SB
Opposing Approach              WB                        EB                        SB                       NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                        NB                        EB                       WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                         1                         1                        1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                        SB                        WB                       EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                         1                         1                        1
HCM Control Delay              7.7                       7.9                       7.4                      7.5
HCM LOS                          A                         A                         A                        A

Lane                                 NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Vol Left, %                            31%   11%    4%   32%
Vol Thru, %                            38%   83%   86%   32%
Vol Right, %                           31%    6%   10%   35%
Sign Control                           Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane                      16    84   128    34
LT Vol                                    6    70   110    11
Through Vol                               5     5    13    12
RT Vol                                    5     9      5   11
Lane Flow Rate                           17    91   139    37
Geometry Grp                              1     1      1    1
Degree of Util (X)                    0.021 0.104 0.156 0.044
Departure Headway (Hd)                4.348 4.119 4.044 4.304
Convergence, Y/N                        Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Cap                                     828   863   881   837
Service Time                          2.349 2.181 2.097 2.305
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.021 0.105 0.158 0.044
HCM Control Delay                       7.4   7.7    7.9  7.5
HCM Lane LOS                              A     A      A    A
HCM 95th-tile Q                         0.1   0.3    0.6  0.1
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




                                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                       2035 Total PM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                    8/7/2013




Movement                      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT      NBL    NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)               1155        57      71    1190       28      43
Number                           2       12       1       6        3      18
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0        0       0       0        0       0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)                    1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        186.3    190.0   186.3    186.3   186.3   190.0
Lanes                            2        0       1        2       1       0
Cap, veh/h                   2962      146     494      3513       0       0
Arrive On Green               0.84     0.84    0.04     0.94    0.00    0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h              3521      174    1774      3725       0       0
Grp Volume(v), veh/h          663      654       77    1293        0       0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1863     1832    1774     1863        0       0
Q Serve(g_s), s                6.1      6.2     0.3      2.1     0.0     0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          6.1      6.2     0.3      2.1     0.0     0.0
Prop In Lane                           0.09    1.00             0.00    0.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h       1567     1541     494     3513        0       0
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.42     0.42    0.16     0.37    0.00    0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h        1567     1541     568     3513        0       0
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00     0.00    0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh       1.4      1.4     0.9      0.2     0.0     0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.8      0.9     0.1      0.3     0.0     0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
%ile Back of Q (50%), veh/ln   1.7      1.6     0.1      0.1     0.0     0.0
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh      2.2      2.2     1.0      0.5     0.0     0.0
Lane Grp LOS                     A        A       A        A
Approach Vol, veh/h          1317                      1370        0
Approach Delay, s/veh          2.2                       0.5     0.0
Approach LOS                     A                         A
Timer
Assigned Phs                      2               1        6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s       62.9             7.1     70.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s         4.0             4.0      4.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s    56.0             6.0     66.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s    8.2             2.3      4.1
Green Ext Time (p_c), s        33.5             0.0     39.6
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                             1.3
HCM 2010 LOS                                      A
Notes
User approved volume balancing among the lanes for turning movement.




                                                                                         Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                   RyanG
Queues                                                  2035 Total PM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                             8/7/2013



Lane Group                EBT     WBL    WBT     NBL
Lane Group Flow (vph)     1317      77   1293      77
v/c Ratio                  0.65   0.33   0.55    0.16
Control Delay              16.4    9.8    10.2   14.7
Queue Delay                 0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0
Total Delay                16.4    9.8   10.2    14.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)     291      16    208      14
Queue Length 95th (ft)     364      32    261      51
Internal Link Dist (ft)   1000           1035    265
Turn Bay Length (ft)                50
Base Capacity (vph)       2041    237    2335    471
Starvation Cap Reductn       0       0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn        0       0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn          0       0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio         0.65    0.32   0.55    0.16
Intersection Summary




                                                                  Synchro 8 Report
                                                                            RyanG
Broadstone at Littleton Station Residential Redevelopment Traffic Impact Analysis, Final Report



APPENDIX H           SIGNAL PROGRESSION




                                                                                  Appendix H
Littleton Boulevard Progression                                                                                Time-Space Diagram - Main Street
Arterial Bandwidths, Maximum Green Times                                                                                              8/8/2013

Main Street
Cross Street                        Approach
                                               20   40   60   80   100   120   140   160     180   200       220         240         260
Offset




1: Littleton Blvd
@ Curtice St


2: Alamo Ave
@ Nevada St                                                                                WB Arterial Band 16 s
48
5: Main Street                                                                             EB Arterial Band 15 s
@ Prince St                                                                                WB Arterial Band 16 s
45




11: Littleton Blvd
@ Bemis St




14: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 15 s
@ Crocker St                                                                               WB Arterial Band 16 s
97




17: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 15 s
@ Windermere St                                                                            WB Arterial Band 16 s
44




12: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 15 s
@ Datura St
40


Baseline                                                                                           J:\112310-01\Analysis\Synchro\WB Prog AM.syn
Littleton Boulevard Progression                                                                                                    With Signal at Bemis
Arterial Bandwidths, Maximum Green Times                                                                                                       8/8/2013

Main Street
Cross Street                        Approach
                                               20   40   60   80   100   120   140   160     180        200          220         240         260
Offset




1: Littleton Blvd
@ Curtice St


2: Alamo Ave
@ Nevada St                                                                                WB Arterial Band 15 s
50
5: Main Street                                                                             EB Arterial Band 16 s
@ Prince St                                                                                WB Arterial Band 15 s
50




11: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 16 s
@ Bemis St                                                                                 WB Arterial Band 15 s
46




14: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 16 s
@ Crocker St                                                                               WB Arterial Band 15 s
3




17: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 16 s
@ Windermere St                                                                            WB Arterial Band 15 s
95




12: Littleton Blvd                                                                         EB Arterial Band 16 s
@ Datura St
40


Baseline                                                                                           J:\112310-01\Analysis\Synchro\With Bemis Prog AM.syn
