  Appendix I 

Traffic Study 

        TRAFFIC STUDY
                FOR
 Desert Sunlight Solar Farm


      Desert Center, California




            Prepared for:

            Tetra Tech 

  301 East Vanderbilt Way, Suite 450

      San Bernardino, CA 92408

            Prepared by:

Hernandez, Kroone & Associates
       234 East Drake Drive 

     San Bernardino, CA 92408 



             June 2010




                                        I-1
   I. Introduction
       A. Purpose of the TIA and Study Objectives
          This analysis was prepared to identify traffic impacts and, if needed, propose
          mitigation, of those impacts of the construction of the Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
          (Project) proposed by First Solar Development (First Solar). The Project includes a
          solar farm producing up to 550 MW of electrical power, approximately 12 miles of
          230-kV transmission line and a 230 ­ 500 kV substation. The Project will provide
          renewable electrical power.

          "The purpose of this Project is to create a clean, renewable source of electricity that
          helps meet California's growing demand for power and helps fulfill national and
          State renewable energy and GHG goals. Solar energy provides a sustainable,
          renewable source of power that helps reduce fossil fuel dependence and GHG
          emissions."i (GHG stands for "Green House Gas")

          "The Project will utilize First Solar's proven thin film cadmium telluride (CdTe) PV
          technology, which is readily scalable to the Project's size."ii

          This traffic study was completed with generally accepted procedures and reflects
          the opinions of Hernandez, Kroone & Associates (HKA). The methods used are
          based on the Highway Capacity Manual. The traffic study follows the outline in the
          Riverside County Transportation Department "Traffic Impact Analysis Preparation
          Guide", dated April 2008.

          Measure of Impacts - The existing condition and the future conditions without
          project traffic is the yardstick to determine the magnitude of the project and its
          traffic impacts. The operation of the traffic without the project is compared to the
          operation of the traffic with the project. The measure used to compare the operation
          of the intersections or roads is called Level of Service.

          Level of Service (LOS) is a measure of the effectiveness of an intersection or road.
          It rates intersections by the length of delay or road segments by a volume to
          capacity ratio.

          A LOS of A means that the intersection has little delay. A LOS of F means the
          intersection has delays of over a minute. The magnitude of change in the LOS
          when the project trips are added to the intersection indicates the magnitude of the
          project's impact.

          The LOS measure of effectiveness for a road is based on the ratio of the volume of
          traffic using the road segments to the capacity of the road segments. The traffic on
          a road operating at LOS A would move freely. The traffic on a road operating at
          LOS F would be traveling significantly less than the posted speed limit in stop / go
          congestions.

          Appendix A has tables showing the ranges of delay for intersections and the
          volume to capacity (v/c) ratios for road segments for the various LOS categories.

          In the County of Riverside, if the LOS decreases to below an LOS of C with the
          addition of the traffic generated by the proposed project (project traffic), it is


Hernandez Kroone & Associates                  1                        Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                   Traffic Study


                                                                                                I-2
          considered to have an impact and mitigation may be required. Intersections under
          joint jurisdiction with Caltrans may operate at an LOS of D.

          Intersections or road segments are selected for analysis based on the project traffic
          distribution anticipated. The study intersections were analyzed for delay and level of
          service (LOS) using HCS on the unsignalized intersections. The HCS software
          uses the Highway Capacity Manual 2000 methodology (HCM) for solving for LOS
          and delay.

          The HCM analysis procedures include mathematically applied adjustment factors
          as part of the process in calculating the final LOS rating of an intersection. One of
          these adjustment factors is called the peak hour factor (PHF). This helps factor in
          the differences between an hourly volume and the inherent discrepancies that may
          occur in forecasting. The PHF is defined by the Highway Capacity Manual as "...the
          ratio of total hourly volume to the peak rate of flow within the hour..." The traffic
          volume is divided by the PHF to adjust it to the maximum flow through the
          intersection.

          HKA would like to acknowledge First Solar Inc. / AECOM who provided the majority
          of the attached figures.

       B. Site location and study area (See Figure 1)
          The Project will be located near Desert Center, California, in the eastern portion of
          Riverside County, near the Joshua Tree National Park. The nearest communities
          are Eagle Mountain, Lake Tamarisk, and Desert Center. The solar panels will be
          constructed and operated at the "solar farm", approximately 6 miles north of
          Interstate 10 (I-10) along Kaiser Road.

          The State Route 177 / I-10 interchange is the nearest interchange. The interchange
          is approximately 50 miles east of Indio, California and 50 miles west of Blythe,
          California. The majority of the land in the area is owned by the Bureau of Land
          Management (BLM).

       C. Development project identification - Riverside County Case
          Number and related case
          Not Applicable

       D. Development project description
          1) Project size and description (See Figures 2 and 3)
              There are several components to the Project. Each will be discussed
              separately. The traffic generated by the various components will be combined to
              approximate the total project traffic as appropriate when components are
              concurrent in activity.

              SOLAR FARM - The size of the solar farm to produce 400 - 550 MWs
              approximately 3,000 - 4,200 acres. The SOLAR FARM will include 400 - 550 -
              1MW PV Arrays, an on-site substation, 28,800 SF monitoring and maintenance
              facility (M&M facility), one or more meteorological stations, guard shack, and
              900 SF Visitor's center.



Hernandez Kroone & Associates                  2                       Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                  Traffic Study


                                                                                               I-3
              The arrays, substation and meteorological stations will have little manpower
              requirements once they are constructed and connected. The M&M Facility will
              be manned during construction and to a lesser intensity during operation of the
              Project. The guard shack will be manned 24 hours a day during the construction
              and operation of the Solar Farm.

              The Visitor's Center will be located just off Kaiser Road near the entrance to the
              Solar Farm. It will have exhibits and an observation deck. Since the Visitor's
              Center will be 6 miles from the I-10, it will not attract casual travelers looking for
              a break in the long drives between desert cities. It will most likely be used by
              school groups, researchers and people staying or visiting at Lake Tamarisk.

              It is anticipated that 15 people will arrive and leave the site daily for operations,
              maintenance and guard duty. The majority of the staff will be at the site during
              daylight hours but occasionally testing or maintenance work will require night
              work.

              At present there are three "footprints" or layouts proposed for the Solar Farm
              (See Figures 2 ­ 3. Alternative C is not shown as the location is the same as
              the other two). They are all located on the east side of Kaiser Road,
              approximately 6 miles north of I-10. Alternatives A and B are the same size, but
              Alternative C is smaller and produces less energy. The traffic impacts of the
              Solar Farm are not expected to change with the shape of the footprint.
              Additional changes to the shape which may be made during the environmental
              review or design stages are not expected to change the traffic impacts. Unless
              a significant change in the location, square footage or in the construction effort,
              there is no difference between the two in regards to traffic impacts.

              Since there are no significant traffic differences between the two proposed solar
              farm footprints, the two concepts will be analyzed in a single traffic analysis.

              TRANSMISSION LINE ­ This line is the 220 KW line running from the SOLAR
              FARM to the RED BLUFF SUBSTATION near the I-10. Since the location of the
              RED BLUFF SUBSTATION is not yet determined, there are several alternatives
              for the routing of this above ground transmission line. Four alternatives are
              proposed and shown on exhibits in Appendix A. In either case the line will
              primarily cross land administered by the BLM with some limited crossing of
              private property. The selection of the RED BLUFF SUBSTATION location will
              reduce the choices of the transmission line route.

              The routes are approximately the same length. Approximately the same
              construction schedule, work crews, equipment, and methods will be used on
              any route. In addition the maintenance schedule, number of crews, equipment,
              and methods will be approximately the same.

              The only difference between the TRANSMISSION LINE routing alternatives that
              will cause a difference between their traffic impacts is the route itself. While the
              TRANSMISSION LINE crews are likely to use Kaiser Road for the portion of
              work near the SOLAR FARM, they may use Eagle Mountain Road, SR-177 or



Hernandez Kroone & Associates                    3                        Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                     Traffic Study


                                                                                                  I-4
              Chuckwalla Valley Road interchanges with I-10 to reach the RED BLUFF
              SUBSTATION site.

              RED BLUFF SUBSTATION ­ Southern California Edison (SCE) plans to
              construct the Red Bluff Substation near the I-10. It will connect the
              TRANSMISSION LINE from the SOLAR FARM to the existing Devers-Palo
              Verde (DSPV) transmission line. Its components include:

              ·      Red Bluff Substation: 500/220 kV substation on approximately 90 acres
              ·      Transmission Lines: Approximately 2,000 feet of new transmission lines
                     (two lines of approximately 1,000 feet each), to connect to the existing
                     DSPV transmission line
              ·      Generation Tie Line Connection: Connect the TRANSMISSION LINE to
                     the Red Bluff Substation
              ·      Modification of existing 220 kV structures
              ·      Distribution Line for Substation Light and Power: Approximately 300 feet
                     of 12 kV overhead distribution line and approximately 1,000 feet of
                     underground distribution line (to provide substation light and power)
              ·      Telecommunications Facilities: Install optical ground wire (OPGW) on
                     the DSPV interconnection generation tie-line

              There are two alternative locations currently being considered for the proposed
              RED BLUFF SUBSTATION. These two alternatives are described in detail in
              the SCE's "Red Bluff Substation Project Description April 15, 2010" and
              summarized below.

              Substation Alternative A: (AKA Red Bluff Site 2 in the SCE project
              description) Substation Alternative A would be located in southeast corner of
              Section 28 and the northeast corner of Section 33, T5S, R16E, east of the SR
              177 / I-10 interchange. Access would be SR-177 / I-10 interchange south to
              Aztec Avenue, then east on Aztec Avenue and a to-be-constructed access road
              to the substation. or 2) Chuckwalla Valley Road / I-10 interchange south to Corn
              Springs Road, then west on Corn Springs Road and a to-be-constructed access
              road to the substation.

              Substation Alternative B: (AKA Red Bluff Site 1 in the SCE project
              description) Substation Alternative B would be located in the northeast corner
              of Section 31, T5S, R15E, south of the Eagle Mountain Road / I-10 interchange.
              Access would be south on Eagle Mountain Road and a to-be-constructed
              access road.
              The size and layout of the components would be approximately the same for
              either site. The construction and maintenance schedules, equipment, and crews
              would be approximately the same for either location.

              The only difference between the RED BLUFF SUBSTATION alternatives that
              will cause a difference between their traffic impacts is the route used to get to
              either site.




Hernandez Kroone & Associates                  4                       Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                  Traffic Study


                                                                                               I-5
          2) Existing land use and zoning
              The Project will be located primarily on land within the BLM's charge. The land
              use is open space. The SOLAR FARM is only on BLM managed land. The
              TRANSMISSION LINE will have small segments that cross private. The
              Alternative B location for RED BLUFF SUBSTATION is on private land.

              The Desert Center Area Land Use map from the County of Riverside General
              Plan is included in Appendix B. Included in the same appendix, are maps
              depicting the ownership, zoning and current land use of the properties where
              the Project components may be constructed. Table 1 summarizes the
              information for the privately owned lands. For the TRANSMISSION LINE, the
              information is presented in the order private property would be crossed if one
              follows the proposed path from north to south. The specific Zoning, Currrent
              Land Use and General Plan Land Use designations are listed only once even if
              the component crosses two properties with the same designation.

                       Table 1 General Plan Designations and Zoningiii

              Property not under the control of the Bureau of Land Management


        Component                        Zoning         Current Land Use           General Plan Land Use
    TRANSMISSION LINE
              Corridor A-1      N-A                    OS-RUR                     Rural Desert
                                W-2-10                 RR                         Community Development
                                R-1-20                 OS-R                       Open Space- Recreation
                 Corridor A-2   A-1-20                 AG                         Rural Desert
                                W-2-10                 OS-RUR
                 Corridor B-1   N-A                    OS-RUR                     Rural Desert
                                W-2-10
                 Corridor B-2   N-A                    OS-RUR                     Rural Desert
                                W-2-10                 RR                         Community Development
                                R-1-20                 OS-R                       Open Space- Recreation
 RED BLUFF SUBSTATION
              Alternative B     W-2-10                 OS-RUR                     Rural Desert
        Abbreviations           N-A ­ Natural Assets   AG - Agriculture           A-1-20 ­ Agricultural ­ Light
                                W-2-10 ­ Controlled    OS-RUR ­ Open              RR ­ Rural Residential
                                    Development Zone            Space Rural
                                R-1-20 ­ One-Family    OS-R Open Space
                                Dwelling per 20 Ac        Recreation


          3) Proposed land use and zoning
          No zoning changes are proposed by the Project's Plan of Development (POD).
          Renewable energy generation or transmission facilities are not expressly allowed
          nor prohibited under the zoning ordinances but permitting may be required by
          County of Riverside for the use of private property in this manner.

          The SOLAR FARM component will require buildings, fencing and arrays on
          approximately 4,200 acres of BLM land. The TRANSMINSSION LINE component
          will have little impact, other than visual, for other approved uses of the land.



Hernandez Kroone & Associates                     5                           Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                         Traffic Study


                                                                                                          I-6
          The RED BLUFF SUBSTATION site will take about 90 acres. The Alternative A
          location will be on BLM land but the Alternative B location is on private property.

          4) Site plan of proposed project (reduced) Figures 2 and 3

          5) Proposed project opening year ­ 2014

          6) Any proposed project phasing ­
          The construction work will be phased so that limited areas of soil will be disturbed
          at a time. A proposed construction schedule is included in Appendix C.

          7) Indicate if project is within a City Sphere of Influence ­
          The project is not within the sphere of influence of any city.

II. Area Conditions
       A. Identify Study Area and Intersections (Figure 4)
          Access to the SOLAR FARM is provided by Kaiser Road, a major road with 118
          feet of right of way. It is predominately a north-south paved road that ends at State
          Route 177 (SR-177) at the south and at Eagle Mountain Landfill at the north end. It
          is one lane in each direction. It is mostly traveled by local residents. During a two
          hour period on a typical weekday, HKA observed three vehicles on the road north
          of its intersection with SR-177.

          SR-177 is predominantly a north-south road that provides access for Kaiser Road
          from the I-10. According to the Desert Center Area Plan by the County of Riverside,
          it is a Mountain Arterial with 110 feet of right of way.iv It connects I-10 to SR 62,
          another east-west route in eastern Riverside County, approximately 30 miles north
          of Desert Center. SR-177 is one lane in each direction with centerline and edge of
          pavement markings.

          The I-10 is an east-west interstate starting in Santa Monica, CA and ending in
          Florida. At this location it is two lanes in each direction.

          There is an east-west road named Ragsdale Road between the I-10 and the SR
          177 / Kaiser Road intersection that was not studied or counted. At the time the
          background counts were taken, the road appeared be a frontage road between the
          Eagle Mountain / I-10 interchange and the SR-177 / I-10 interchange. It dead ends
          east of the SR-177.

          Intersections were selected based on project trips, proposed distribution and the
          anticipated use of the SR-177 interchange to reach the Project sites. The SCE "Red
          Bluff Substation Project Description April 15, 2010" describes the possible use of
          interchanges east and west of the SR-177 / I-10 interchange. The project trips
          using those interchanges will be significantly less than the number of project trips
          using the SR-1777 / I-10 interchange.




Hernandez Kroone & Associates                   6                          Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                      Traffic Study


                                                                                                   I-7
          Intersections to be analyzed are: 


          ·       SR-177 / I-10 EB Ramp
          ·       SR-177 / 1-10 WB Ramp
          ·       SR-177 / Kaiser Road


       B. Existing traffic controls and intersection geometrics
       SR-177 is the main road and is not stop controlled. The intersecting roads with SR-177
       are stop controlled. The geometrics of the intersections are shown in Figure 5 and in
       Table 2.

                                  Table 2: Existing Geometrics

                                   NB                   SB              EB                 WB
     Intersections
                             L     T      R     L       T    R     L    T      R      L     T     R
SR-177 / I-10 EB Ramp1       -     1      S     S       1    -     1    1      Y      -     -     -
SR-177 / I-10 WB Ramp        S     1      -     -       1    S     -     -            S     1     S
SR-177 / Kaiser Road         S     1      S     -       1    S     S     -     S      -     -     -
       S ­ Turning Movement is shared with Adjacent Through movement. 

       Y ­ Turning movement must yield but is not stopped controlled. Has a separate lane. 


       C. Existing traffic volumes - AM and PM peak hour turning
          movements and roadway links) (Figure 6A - AM and Figure 6B 
          PM)
          Turning movement counts and a 24 hour classification count were taken by Counts
          Unlimited (See Appendix A) on February 17, 2010. Only 108 vehicles used Kaiser
          Road north of Lake Tamarisk Resort during the 24 hour period counted.

          Data on the volume of the I-10 in the project area was obtained from the Caltrans
          2008 Annual Average Day Traffic Data (Appendix A). The peak hour volume on the
          I-10 near the SR-177 interchange is in the 2,800 to 3,000 vehicle range.

       D. Existing delay and Level of Service (LOS) at study
          intersections/roadway links

       Using the existing peak hour volumes and geometrics, the following LOS resulted at
       the study intersections. The detailed printouts are in Appendix D.




Hernandez Kroone & Associates                       7                       Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                       Traffic Study


                                                                                                    I-8
                     Table 3: LOS Summary for Existing Conditions and Traffic Volumes


            Intersection             Control            AM Peak Period          PM Peak Period
                                                      Delay, sec     LOS       Delay, sec     LOS
      SR-177 / I-10 EB         Stops EB Off Ramp          9.0         A            8.9         A
      SR-177 / I-10 WB         WB Off Ramp Stops          8.6         A            8.7         A
      SR-177 / Kaiser RD       SB Kaiser RD Stops         8.5         A            8.6         A


          Since SR-177 is not controlled, traffic movements on SR-177 will maintain an LOS A.
          The movements of concern are those at the stop-controlled approach, as they must
          yield to the traffic on SR-177. Furthermore adequate gaps in the traffic stream or
          queues need to be available to left and right turning vehicles. The existing traffic
          volumes operate at an acceptable LOS in both the AM and PM Peak Periods.

          E. Provide copy of General Plan Circulation Element in the project
             vicinity (Appendix A)

          F. Indicate if Transit service is available in the area and along which
             routes (Appendix A)
          There is no public transportation along SR-177. Greyhound Bus Service and perhaps
          other commercial bus lines travel east and west along I-10 without designated stations
          at SR-177.

   III.      Projected Future Traffic
          A. Project Traffic and Project Phasing (each study year)
                 1. Ambient growth rate
                 The desert cities of the County of Riverside have experienced rapid growth in
                 the recent boom period. Table 4 shows the growth of the two nearest cities
                 based on numbers from the U.S Census Bureau website.

                                Table 4: Population Growth at I-10 Communities

                     City                               Population
                                   1990           2000         2009             Growth Rate, %
                 Blythe, CA        8,448         20,465       21,329                 152
                 Indio, CA        36,850         49,116       82,230                 123

                 The I-10 communities in the area have shown an approximately 135% growth
                 rate over that 19 year span. However the unincorporated areas have not grown
                 as rapidly. Table 5 shows rates of growth of about than 45% over the same
                 period in the unincorporated areas.




Hernandez Kroone & Associates                    8                        Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                     Traffic Study


                                                                                                   I-9
                     Table 5: Population Growth in Unincorporated County of Riverside 


                                                         Population
                                  1990            2000           2009            Growth Rate, %
         Balance of County       385,384         420,721       558,214                45

              Caltrans provides a history of annual average daily traffic counts at
              interchanges throughout the state. The difference between volume of traffic
              west of the interchange and the volume of traffic east of the interchange is the
              net traffic exiting and entering at the interchange. An increase in traffic indicates
              an increase in the population or employment activity near that location.

              Comparing the net traffic at the I-10 ramps in the area between 1998 and 2008,
              there has been little increase in traffic at the ramps. During those 10 years, the
              growth in traffic at the SR-177 ramp was 14%, an average rate of about 1.5%
              per year in net change. This is probably a more accurate number for the
              anticipated growth in the area. For the purposes of this analysis, a 2% total
              growth in the background traffic during the construction period will be used.

                           Table 6: Caltrans Annual Average Daily Traffic Counts

                                        1998                              2008
          Interchange        West      East        Net         West      East       Net         Growth
          with I-10                              Change                            Change       Rate, %
          Eagle              15,200 15,200          0         23,000 23,000          0
          Mountain/Cloud
          Eagle Mountain     15,200   15,100         100      23,000   23,000         0           -100
          SR-177             15,100   13,700        1,400     23,000   21,400       1,600          14
          Chuckwalla         13,700   13,700          0       21,400   21,400         0
          Ford Dry Lake      13,700   13,700          0       21,400   21,300        100          100


              2. Project Trip generation
              Project trips are the volume of traffic that will be added to the road system
              because of the development of the project. Since this land is currently
              undeveloped, all trips that will be generated by the project are considered to be
              project trips for the purposes of this study.

              There are several ways to estimate the trips generated by a project. One way is
              to use data collected from a large number of similar projects. Such data has
              been compiled by the Institute of Transportation Engineers, "ITE Trip
              Generation Handbook." These data points have been plotted and best fit curves
              through these data points have been developed. However, the construction of a
              solar farm, substation, and transmission lines or the operation of these facilities
              is not identified in the ITE Trip Generation Handbook.

              Therefore, an analysis of individual site activities including employment,
              deliveries of construction materials and equipment, the construction schedule,
              and future operational activities and resulting trips needs to be studied


Hernandez Kroone & Associates                   9                         Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                     Traffic Study


                                                                                                 I-10
              individually to identify the trips generated at varying phases of project
              development.

              Furthermore, these trips need to be identified as to those trips occurring during
              the hours of expected peak traffic on the road. Generally there are two times
              when the existing traffic volume is highest: between 0600-0900 and 1600-1800
              on a normal week day. The impacts of the traffic are studied for the peak one
              hour period during each of those two periods. The discussion that follows will
              estimate the project trips of concern for both the AM and PM Peak Periods.

              Opening Day Project Trips - The project trips for the operation and maintenance
              of the SOLAR FARM, TRANSMISSION LINE and RED BLUFF SUBSTATION
              will be low.

              First Solar anticipates about 15 daily trips to and from the site for the various
              employees and an additional 7 deliveries per weekday. Table 7 shows an
              anticipated schedule of the trips to and from the site each day.v Trips to the
              Visitor's Center will primarily be by school bus or car and are not expected to
              occur during the peak traffic periods.

                     Table 7: Operation and Maintenance Project Trips - SOLAR FARM

     Buildings           Staff per      Shifts       ADT Trips        AM Peak         PM Peak
                           shift                     (one-way)          Period          Period
                                                                     IN      OUT     IN     OUT
M&M, etc.                   10       0600 ­ 1800          20          -        -      -       -
                            10       1800 ­ 0600          20                  10     10       -
Visitor's Center             1       1000 ­ 1500           2          -        -      -       -
Guard Shack                  2       0600 ­ 1800           4          -        -      -       -
                             2       1800 ­ 0600           4          -        2      2       -
Deliveries                           0800 ­ 1700          14          1        1      1       1
                 Total                                    64          1       13     13       1


              TRANSMISSION LINE ­ Traffic for the operation and maintenance of
              TRANSMISSION LINE is sporadic. Inspections are generally yearly and
              maintenance will be on an "as-needed" basis. No peak hour project trips are
              included in the peak periods for the operation and maintenance since these
              trips can report at anytime. The operation and maintenance of the
              TRANSMISSION LINE, regardless of the route used, is not anticipated to
              impact the LOS of the intersections and roads in the area.

              RED BLUFF SUBSTATION ­ The RED BLUFF SUBSTATION will be monitored
              remotely and may have 3-4 visits a month regardless of the location selected.
              No peak hour project trips are included in the peak periods for the operation
              and maintenance since these visits may occur at anytime. The operation and
              maintenance of the RED BLUFF SUBSTATION, regardless of the route used, is
              not anticipated to impact the LOS of the intersections and roads in the area.




Hernandez Kroone & Associates                 10                       Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                  Traffic Study


                                                                                              I-11
                                Table 8: Operation and Maintenance Project Trips 

                                                 For the Project 


                    Project Component            ADT Trips       AM Peak           PM Peak
                                                                   Period           Period
                                                 (round trips)   IN     OUT     IN       OUT
                 SOLAR FARM                           28          1      13     13         1
                 TRANSMISSION LINE                     -          -       -      -         -
                 RED BLUFF SUBSTATION                  -          -       -      -         -
                  Total O&M Project Trips             28          1      13     13         1


              This results in total Opening Day project trips of 14 trips during the AM and PM
              Peak period. An increase of 14 trips during the peak hour will not impact the
              intersections or roadway. The existing intersections and roadways have
              sufficient capacity to absorb these 14 trips without a decrease in LOS or
              operation. There is no concern for impacts to the study roads or intersection
              and no need for mitigation due to the operation and maintenance project trips
              for the Project.

              A future analysis (20 year scenario) with these 14 trips was not performed. The
              project trips are not anticipated to change since the activity which generated the
              trips is not likely to change. The future intersection volumes will increase based
              upon growth rates established earlier. However traffic forecasting for a 20 year
              scenario is not an exact science. The volumes forecast will have a variance of
              more than these 14 project trips. Therefore, a future LOS was not performed.

              Additionally the Riverside County Transportation Department Traffic Impact
              Analysis Preparation Guide does not require the analysis of intersections that
              receive less than 50 peak period project trips. The Project will not generate at
              least 50 peak period project trips during the operation and maintenance of its
              components after construction. The Project will generate at least 50 peak period
              project trips during the construction of its components. Construction traffic
              impacts will be analyzed.

              Construction Traffic Project Trips- Frequently the impacts of the project trips
              during construction are ignored due to the limited duration and temporary
              nature of the impacts. However the construction period of this project is
              expected to take from December of 2010 through February of 2013 or a little
              over 2 years. The project trips identified for Opening Day and the 20 year future
              scenario were too small to be significant. Therefore, the project trips from the
              construction activities were selected for impact analysis.

              The Supplemental POD released March 19, 2010 and the SCE "Red Bluff
              Substation Project Description April 15, 2010" provided a great deal of
              information regarding number of personnel, equipment, and process of the
              construction effort required. The current construction schedule for the SOLAR
              FARM and TRANSMISSION LINE is included in Appendix C.



Hernandez Kroone & Associates                   11                      Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                   Traffic Study


                                                                                               I-12
              Construction Worker Project Trips ­

              SOLAR FARM ­ The construction and management workers required for the
              construction of the SOLAR FARM are expected to peak at about 562
              employees during months 6 and 7 of the proposed construction schedule, not
              including the security guards. Months 5 and 8 ­ 16 will have closer to 542
              employees at the site.

              TRANSMISSION LINE ­ The construction workers required for the construction
              of the TRANSMISSION LINE are anticipated to average 25 employees for the
              20 month effort. They will peak at 60 for the 6th ­ 8th months of construction.

              SOLAR FARM and TRANSMISSION LINE construction work shifts will be 0700
              to 1530. The hours may be adjusted for particular construction efforts (concrete
              pours) or to avoid the worst of the summer heat.

              First Solar plans to provide 25 buses with 20 seats each to transport crews from
              Palm Springs, Blythe and other population centers to the site. Even with the
              long distances to commute, it is anticipated that approximately 10% of the staff
              will drive vehicles with two or less persons per car or about 60 vehicles.

              RED BLUFF SUBSTATION ­
              The SCE "Red Bluff Substation Project Description April 15, 2010" describes
              the work crews required for various components of the RED BLUFF
              SUBSTATION. No construction schedule was provided. The tasks and number
              of workers did not change between the two locations.

              Since no construction schedule was provided, the peak number of crew for
              each component was assumed to overlap so that a conservative project trips
              estimate was developed.

              It is not known at this time if the construction will be completed by SCE crews or
              the staff of a private contractor. SCE crews usually travel in crew cab trucks
              with a minimum of 3 to a pickup. Crews for private contractors generally arrive
              in separate vehicles, but given the long commute it was assumed that 80% of
              the employees will car pool to the site. With those assumptions, it will take more
              cars to provide the same number of workers if private contractors are used for
              the construction of the substation and its components. The number of vehicles
              estimated to carry the private contractor's employees was used as the project
              trips during construction of the RED BLUFF SUBSTATION.

              The project trips for the construction workers for all of the components of the
              Project were added in the following table. The calculations and assumptions
              leading to this table are given in more detail in Appendix C.




Hernandez Kroone & Associates                 12                       Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                  Traffic Study


                                                                                              I-13
                                Table 9: Construction Workers Project Trips 


             Component              Daily Trips, PCEs      AM Peak Period      PM Peak Period
                                                            IN      OUT         IN      OUT
     SOLAR FARM &
                                            204              88         2          -        10
     TRANSMISSION LINE
     RED BLUFF SUBSTATION                   108               46        -          -         8
     Visitors, etc.                          10                -        -          -         -
     Total                                  322              134        2          -        18


              Construction Equipment Project Trips - The Supplemental POD released March
              19, 2010 and the SCE "Red Bluff Substation Project Description April 15, 2010"
              provided a great deal of information regarding quantities and types of vehicles
              that will be used for the construction of the Project and the materials that will be
              hauled to the construction site. It is anticipated that approximately 10,400 loads
              will be brought to the site over the course of the construction effort. The majority
              of the equipment and materials will be brought to the site via oversized vehicles.

              Since access to the site requires driving the oversized vehicles on state
              controlled roads (I-10, SR-177, etc), permits from Caltrans are required. Those
              permits require the oversized vehicles access the State's roads outside of the
              peak traffic periods.

              The equipment will be brought to the site as needed and will not impact the
              public roads again until they depart. Most of this equipment will be brought to
              the site prior to the maximum level in construction employee traffic.

              It is anticipated that an average of about 20 large vehicles will deliver
              equipment or material each day. Even though there may be several deliveries of
              materials a day for most of the construction period, most of these vehicles are
              not expected to move during the peak traffic periods. The only exception to this
              norm will be when concrete is being poured.

              At this time, it is anticipated that concrete will be delivered to the project site
              from communities to the east in 10 cubic yard mixers. These vehicles have 3
              axles on the road and move during all hours of the day.

              Since concrete needs to be poured in cooler temperatures, the concrete trucks
              frequently move during the AM Peak Period. When the pouring sites are set up
              efficiently, up to 3 mixers can arrive, be unloaded and leave in an hour. For the
              purposes of this analysis, it is assumed that concrete is being poured in two
              sites at one time and that 6 mixers will arrive at the site and 5 mixers will leave
              the site in an hour's time during the AM Peak Period.

              For the concrete to be unloaded effectively, the site needs to be set up and
              ready to go. This normally means that part of the construction crew has arrived




Hernandez Kroone & Associates                  13                        Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                    Traffic Study


                                                                                                 I-14
              earlier to set up the site. To keep the analysis conservative, the construction
              worker traffic is not being reduced for the AM peak period.

              Large trucks move through surface streets and intersections more slowly than
              cars and take more time to move through intersections. Since the analysis
              procedures are based on the number of passenger cars, the concrete mixer
              must be converted to an equivalent number of cars. The project truck trips were
              converted to passenger car equivalents (PCEs) by using a factor of 3. Using a
              PCE of 3 per concrete mixer, the number of project trips due to concrete mixers
              will 18 PCEs arriving and 15 PCEs leaving the AM Peak Period.

              Concrete will not be poured during all peak traffic periods during the
              construction. But since the deliveries of large loads that are not oversized could
              happen during the peak periods, the inclusion of almost a third of the daily
              deliveries during the AM Peak Period will result in a conservative estimate for
              the analysis.

                                Table 10: Construction Project Trips, PCEs

             Component              Daily Trips, PCEs     AM Peak Period      PM Peak Period
                                                           IN      OUT         IN      OUT
     SOLAR FARM &
                                           204              88         2         -        10
     TRANSMISSION LINE
     RED BLUFF SUBSTATION                  108              46         -         -         8
     Visitors, etc.                        10                -         -         -         -
     Personnel Subtotal                    322             134         2         -        18
     Deliveries, Concrete,
                                             -              18        15         -         -
     Equipment
     Total                                   -             152        17         -        18

              3. Project Trip Distribution and Assignment (Figures 7 and 8)
              Access to the site will be primarily from I-10 via SR-177 and Kaiser Road. The
              majority of the construction workers will be assigned to the SOLAR FARM off
              Kaiser Road.

              If Alternative A is selected for the Red Bluff Substation location, access may be
              provided by the Chuckwalla Road / I-10 interchange. This would include the
              crews working on all components of the RED BLUFF SUBSTATION and the
              crews working on the TRANSMISSION LINE during the portion of its
              construction near the substation.

              If Alternative B is selected for the Red Bluff Substation location, access will be
              the Eagle Mountain Road / I-10 interchange. This would include the crews
              working on all components of the RED BLUFF SUBSTATION and the crews
              working on the TRANSMISSION LINE during the portion of its construction near
              the substation.

              Using either Chuckwalla Road / I-10 interchange or Eagle Mountain Road / I-10
              interchange would reduce the project trips for the construction workers and



Hernandez Kroone & Associates                    14                    Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                  Traffic Study


                                                                                               I-15
              concrete trucks on SR-177. This would reduce the anticipated traffic impacts at
              the SR-177 / I-10 interchange. For the purposes of this analysis, it is assumed
              that all the project traffic will use the SR-177 / I-10 interchange.

              Construction Workers Distribution ­ The construction workers will access the
              site via the SR-177 / I-10 interchange. Those working at the SOLAR FARM will
              turn north at the interchange. The crews on the TRANSMISSION LINE will turn
              either north or south depending on where the work is on its route. The crews
              working on or near the RED BLUFF SUBSTATION will turn south at the
              interchange.

              Given the low population density in the area it was assumed that only about 3%
              of the workers would come from the local area. They were distributed as
              arriving from Eagle Mountain, a community north of the SOLAR FARM site.

              Another 3% of the construction workers were distributed as arriving from the
              north using SR-177.

              The remainder of the employees was distributed to arrive via I-10. The
              population centers, with available workers are primarily west of the SR-177 / I
              10 interchange. Due to the difference in population densities, remaining
              construction worker traffic is divided approximately 70% - 30% west and east of
              the interchange.

              Concrete Trucks ­ The project description has all concrete trucks arriving and
              leaving to the east from Blythe.

              Figure 7 shows the inbound project trip distribution in terms of percentage. The
              outbound distribution of project trips would be the opposite of the inbound
              distribution. Figure 8 shows the project trips distribution in terms of PCEs.

              4. Other factors affecting trip generation (identify any factors used
              to adjust trip generation, such as pass-by trips, internal trips, or
              modal choice.
              The Project is a destination that does not lend itself to pass-by trips, internal
              trips, or modal choice.

              5. Construction Project peak hour turning movement traffic
              See Figures 7 and 8 discussed above.

              6. Project completion or phase completion traffic volumes
              See Section III. A. 2. The construction worker traffic exceeds any operation and
              maintenance traffic and is the only one that needs to be considered.

        C. Cumulative Traffic (background)
              1. Ambient Growth Rate
                 See section III.A.1.




Hernandez Kroone & Associates                   15                        Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                     Traffic Study


                                                                                                  I-16
              2. Identify location of other approved or proposed development
              projects
              Cumulative traffic impacts are a concern when new projects have been
              approved, are funded for construction, but are currently not opened. In the near
              future, these projects would generate additional traffic trips throughout the study
              area. At the time of the data collection for existing traffic volumes, these
              cumulative project trips cannot be collected and must be estimated.

              The EIS for the Project has an extensive list of projects that may be built in the
              future. The tables and a figure from the EIS are in Appendix C. The list was
              reviewed for approved but not built projects that would add project trips to the
              study intersections.

              The following projects might add trips to the study intersections:

                                   Table 11: Possible Cumulative Projects

                  Name                            Location                      Status
      Eagle Mountain Pumped Water           North of Desert Center       Application submitted
      Storage
      Chuckwalla Solar I                    North of Desert Center       Plan of Development
                                                                           submitted to BLM
      Desert Lily Soleil                    North of Desert Center                  -
      Eagle Mountain Landfill Project       North of Desert Center     Project Alternatives
                                                                       under reconsideration.
      Chuckwalla Racetrack                 North of Desert Center,     Approved
                                                 on SR-177


              The first four projects are not approved and their anticipated project trips are not
              considered to be cumulative trips for the analysis for the First Solar's Project.

              The other project in the area is the Chuckwalla Racetrack, the proposed
              conversion of a closed airstrip to a membership racetrack and storage venue.
              The access to the Chuckwalla Racetrack will be from I-10 or State Route 62 via
              SR-177.

              The County of Riverside did not require a traffic study for the Chuckwalla so the
              number of vehicles added during the peak hours of a typical weekday is
              assumed to be insignificant. It is probable that the majority of the trips are
              expected to be on the weekends. The trips generated by the Chuckwalla
              Racetrack are not considered to be cumulative for the analysis for the First
              Solar's Project.

              3. Trip generation from other approved projects - Not Applicable.

              4. Trip distribution and assignment of other approved development
                 projects - Not Applicable.




Hernandez Kroone & Associates                  16                        Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                    Traffic Study


                                                                                                I-17
              5. Total background
                                     peak hour turning movement volumes
                 (Figures 9A and 9B)
              The background traffic counted at the site was increased by 2% to project the
              background traffic expected during the construction period. The volumes shown
              on Figures 6A and 6B were multiplied by 1.02.

IV.    Traffic Analysis
       A. Capacity, Level of Service and Improvement Analysis -
          Intersections

          1) Delay and LOS for Existing Conditions
          See Section II. D. LOS printouts are in Appendix D.

            Table 12: LOS Summary for Existing Conditions and Traffic Volumes

         Intersection             Control            AM Peak Period           PM Peak Period
                                                   Delay, sec      LOS       Delay, sec     LOS
      SR-177 / I-10 EB      EB Off Ramp Stops          9.0          A            8.9         A
      SR-177 / I-10 WB      WB Off Ramp Stops          8.6          A            8.7         A
      SR-177 / Kaiser RD    SB Kaiser RD Stops         8.5          A            8.6         A


          2) Delay and LOS for Project Conditions

          For this project, the only activity which generates a traffic concern is the
          construction work. Normally construction impacts are not of concern as they are of
          short duration and temporary. Typically, the project trips are added to the opening
          day and future year scenario background traffic and it is the combination of those
          two volumes which generate a traffic impact. However, in this situation the existing
          ADT of the streets is in the 100 ADT range and with the project trips added for the
          Project after Opening Day just doesn't generate an impact for evaluation.

          In this situation the construction period will continue for more than 2 years and the
          number of vehicles used during construction will be substantially more than the
          anticipated volumes of traffic during the operation and maintenance of the Project.
          So the construction traffic impacts are analyzed. More detail LOS analysis printouts
          can be found in Appendix D.

                    Table 13: LOS Summary for Construction Period

         Intersection             Control             Without Project           With Project
                   AM Peak Period                  Delay, sec      LOS       Delay, sec     LOS
      SR-177 / I-10 EB      EB Off Ramp Stops          9.0          A            9.6         A



Hernandez Kroone & Associates                 17                        Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                   Traffic Study


                                                                                               I-18
         Intersection              Control              Without Project            With Project
      SR-177 / I-10 WB      WB Off Ramp Stops            8.6           A            9.3         A
      SR-177 / Kaiser RD    SB Kaiser RD Stops           8.5           A            8.6         A
                   PM Peak Period                    Delay, sec      LOS        Delay, sec     LOS
      SR-177 / I-10 EB      EB Off Ramp Stops            8.9           A            9.0         A
      SR-177 / I-10 WB      WB Off Ramp Stops            8.7           A            8.8         A
      SR-177 / Kaiser RD    SB Kaiser RD Stops           8.6           A            8.7         A


          As summarize in Table 13, the impact of the construction traffic to the background
          traffic expected during the construction period is to increase the delay at all
          intersections by less than one second. The LOS does not deteriorate a level at any
          intersection. The construction traffic for this Project has no significant traffic impact
          at the intersections.

V. Findings and Recommendations
       A. Traffic Impacts and Level of Service Analysis
          This analysis was prepared to identify traffic impacts and, if needed, propose
          mitigation, of those impacts of the construction of the Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
          (Project) proposed by First Solar Development (First Solar). The Project includes a
          solar farm producing up to 550 MW of electrical power, approximately 12 miles of
          230-kV transmission line and a 230 ­ 500 kV substation. The Project will provide
          renewable electrical power.

          This traffic study was completed with generally accepted procedures and reflects
          the opinions of Hernandez, Kroone & Associates (HKA). The methods used are
          based on the Highway Capacity Manual. The traffic study follows the outline in the
          Riverside County Transportation Department "Traffic Impact Analysis Preparation
          Guide", dated April 2008.

          The project trips were generated and distributed. The Project will generate less
          than 15 trips per peak traffic period after construction is completed. As analysis is
          not required at intersections with less than 50 peak hour trips, an Opening Day and
          Future Year (20 year scenario) was not completed.

          However due to the length of the construction period, the construction traffic
          impacts were evaluated. Based on the construction trips and the distribution of
          those trips the following intersections were selected for analysis:

          ·       SR-177 / I-10 EB Ramp
          ·       SR-177 / 1-10 WB Ramp
          ·       SR-177 / Kaiser Road




Hernandez Kroone & Associates                   18                         Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                      Traffic Study


                                                                                                  I-19
          As noted before, the future conditions without project traffic is the yardstick to
          determine the magnitude of the project and its traffic impacts. The operation of the
          traffic without the project is compared to the operation of the traffic with the project
          to identify the traffic impacts. The measure of the operation of the traffic is called
          the Level of Service (LOS).

          The study intersections were analyzed for the AM and PM peak traffic periods for
          the without project condition and the with project condition during the construction
          period. Counts were taken at these intersections, those volumes were increased by
          2% to account for the increase in background traffic over the next two years to
          model the without project condition. The project trips were added to model the with
          project condition.

          The Highway Capacity Software was used to calculate the LOS. Table 12 is a
          summary of the current operation of the intersections. All intersections currently
          operate at a LOS of A. Table 13 summarizes the operation of the intersections
          during the construction time period. All intersections continue to operate at a LOS
          of A for the next few years. The anticipated construction traffic does not degrade
          the LOS. The Project has no traffic impacts at the study intersections and no
          mitigation is required.

          The construction traffic will add a large number of vehicles to the local roads. Being
          a "good neighbor" during construction might include the following efforts:
              · Sweeping the paved roads periodically to cut down on dust picked up by
                  the construction vehicles
              · Documenting the current state of the roads (video and pavement corings)
                  to be used during construction and returning the roads to the current level
                  after construction.

       B. Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis
          No traffic signal warrant analysis is needed.

       C. Circulation requirements
          No on-site or area wide circulation improvements are needed.



Figure 1 ­ Vicinity Map
Figure 2 ­ Site Plan for Solar Farm Alternative A
Figure 3 ­ Site Plan for Solar Farm Alternative B
Figure 4 ­ Photos
Figure 5 ­ Existing Lane Configurations
Figure 6A ­ Existing Traffic ­ AM
Figure 6B ­ Existing Traffic - PM
Figure 7 - Project Trip Distribution, %
Figure 8 - Project Trip Distribution, PCEs
Figure 9A ­ Background Traffic Adjusted for Construction Period ­ AM
Figure 9B ­ Background Traffic Adjusted for Construction Period - PM


Hernandez Kroone & Associates                  19                        Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                    Traffic Study


                                                                                                I-20
i
   First Solar Inc., "Plan of Development - Desert Sunlight Solar Farm", December 29, 2009, page 7. 

ii
    First Solar Inc., "Plan of Development - Desert Sunlight Solar Farm", December 29, 2009, page 4. 

iii
    Tetra Tech Mapping of information in First Solar Inc., "Plan of Development - Desert Sunlight Solar 

Farm", December 29, 2009, and First Solar, Inc., "Supplemental Plan of Development - Desert Sunlight 

Solar Farm", March 19, 2010. 

iv
    Riverside County Integrated Project, Desert Center Area Plan Circulation, Figure 6. 

v
    First Solar Inc, "Supplemental Plan of Development - Desert Sunlight Solar Farm", March 19, 2010, 

page 51



Appendices:
   A. Background Information
   B. Land Use
   C. Project Trip Generation
   D. LOS Analysis




Hernandez Kroone & Associates                      20                         Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
08-1002 ­ June 2010                                                                         Traffic Study


                                                                                                      I-21
                                                                              ®




                                                     Project Study Area

                                                               @

                                                                       Pa e" Dry ake




                                                   Desert Ce"ter                                     yt he
                                                   Desert Ce"ter




                                                                                                                    J:\GIS\Projects\12414-First_Solar\011-Desert Sunlight\mxd\Feb10Bnd\Figure 1_Project Vicinity Map.mxd
                                                                                                              D




Map Location                Legend
   OR             ID                                                Desert Su" ight
                                                                   So ar Farm Project
             NV        UT




                                                        
                                                                         Figure @
        CA                                                         Project Vici"ity Map
                                     1:1,000,000
                       AZ                                                                 Project: 60139386.004
                            0           20                40
                                                           Miles                            Date: March 2010




                                                                                                             I-22
                   Approximate
Approximate        Location of Red
Location of Red    Bluff Substation
Bluff Substation   Alternative A
Alternative B




                                      Figure 2 Solar Farm Alternative A
                                      Base Map by First Solar / AECOM


                                                                     I-23
Approximate        Approximate
Location of Red    Location of Red
Bluff Substation   Bluff Substation
Alternative B      Alternative A




                                      Figure 3 Solar Farm Alternative B
                                      Base Map by First Solar / AECOM


                                                                     I-24
Kaiser Road & SR-177 Looking South East




  Kaiser Road - One Mile North of SR-177
             Looking North




                                           Figure 4

                                                       I-25
Kaiser Road at Project Location
         Looking North




I-10 East Bound Off Ramp and SR-177
          Looking North West




                                      Figure 4, cont.
                                                        I-26
                                                Off Ramp             Off Ramp                            On Ramp
   On Ramp




                                                                                 Yield



             I-10 WEST BOUND (E-W)                                              I-10 EASTBOUND (E-W)
                      and                                                                AND
             STATE ROUTE 177 (N-S)                                              STATE ROUTE 177 (N-S)




                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                    17
                                                                                                SR
        NORTH
         N.T.S.




   Legend

        Direction of Traffic                                                  KAISER ROAD (NW-SE)
                                                                                      AND
        Stop Sign                                                           STATE ROUTE 177 (NE-SW)




                                                                                             PROJECT NO.
Hernandez, Kroone & Associates, Inc                   DESCRIPTION
              - CONSULTING ENGINEERS                                                                 08-1002
  H    PLANNING - DESIGN - SURVEYING                                Existing Lane
   K
                234 EAST DRAKE DRIVE
            SAN BERNARDINO, CA 92408                                Configurations           DATE

    A
        (909) 884-3222     FAX (909) 383-1577
           E-MAIL: richardh@hkagroup.com                              Figure 5                      4-05-2010
                                                                                                           I-27
                           45 26                                                               2 22


   On Ramp                                      14 Off Ramp            Off Ramp    39                               On Ramp
                                                 0                                  1
                                                 0                                  2

                             5 41                                                               2 0




            I-10 WEST BOUND (E-W)                                                 I-10 EASTBOUND (E-W)
                     and                                                                   AND
            STATE ROUTE 177 (N-S)                                                 STATE ROUTE 177 (N-S)




                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                             17
                                                                                                      35SR
                                                                                                       1
                                                                                      0
                NORTH                                                               11
                 N.T.S.
                                                                                        28 5




                                                                                KAISER ROAD (NW-SE)
                                                                                        AND
                                                                              STATE ROUTE 177 (NE-SW)




                                                         DESCRIPTION                                  PROJECT NO.
Hernandez, Kroone & Associates, Inc
              - CONSULTING ENGINEERS                              AM Existing Traffic                         08-1002
  H    PLANNING - DESIGN - SURVEYING

   K
                234 EAST DRAKE DRIVE
                                                                                                      DATE
            SAN BERNARDINO, CA 92408                                   Figure 6A
    A
        (909) 884-3222     FAX (909) 383-1577
           E-MAIL: richardh@hkagroup.com
                                                                                                             04-07-2010
                                                                                                                    I-28
                            37 22                                                                  6 19


                                                18                                    39
   On Ramp                                       1   Off Ramp            Off Ramp      0                              On Ramp
                                                 4                                     1

                              0 42                                                                 3 3




             I-10 WEST BOUND (E-W)                                                   I-10 EASTBOUND (E-W)
                      and                                                                     AND
             STATE ROUTE 177 (N-S)                                                   STATE ROUTE 177 (N-S)




                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                             17
                                                                                                          38 SR
                                                                                                            1
                                                                                               1
         NORTH                                                                             7
          N.T.S.
                                                                                           39 4
                                                                                             1




                                                                                      KAISER ROAD (NW-SE)
                                                                                              AND
                                                                                    STATE ROUTE 177 (NE-SW)




                                                           DESCRIPTION                                    PROJECT NO.
Hernandez, Kroone & Associates, Inc
              - CONSULTING ENGINEERS                                PM Existing Traffic                           08-1002
  H    PLANNING - DESIGN - SURVEYING

   K
                234 EAST DRAKE DRIVE
            SAN BERNARDINO, CA 92408                                       Figure 6B                      DATE

    A
        (909) 884-3222     FAX (909) 383-1577
           E-MAIL: richardh@hkagroup.com
                                                                                                                 04-07-2010
                                                                                                                        I-29
                                            3%
                                                                    Solar
                                                                    Farm                                           7
                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                         SR




                                                              97%
                                                Kaiser Road




                                                                          3%
      NORTH
       N.T.S.                                                             94%




                                                                                                    Ragsdale
                                                                                                               Road



                                                                          27%
                                                                                                                       I-10
                                                                    67%




                                                         67%



   Legend
                                                                                  Note: Distribution shown is for
       Direction of Traffic                                                       SOLAR FARM & TRANSMISSION LINE crews


                                                                                                       PROJECT NO.
Hernandez, Kroone & Associates, Inc                                 DESCRIPTION
              - CONSULTING ENGINEERS                                                                           08-1002
  H    PLANNING - DESIGN - SURVEYING                                               Project Trip
   K
                234 EAST DRAKE DRIVE
            SAN BERNARDINO, CA 92408                                              Distribution, %      DATE

    A
        (909) 884-3222     FAX (909) 383-1577
           E-MAIL: richardh@hkagroup.com                                            Figure 7                   4-07-2010
                                                                                                                       I-30
                                            3 (0) / 0
                                                                          Solar
                                                                          Farm
                                                                     17 (15) / 10
                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                      17
                                                                                                                                                 SR




                                                          103 (18) / 0
                                                  Kaiser Road




                                                                                                /0
                                                                                                                                     AM     PM

                                                                                          0)
      NORTH                                                                             3(                                         IN OUT IN OUT
       N.T.S.                               17 0 (0                                                             SOLAR &
                                              (15 ) / 0                                                         TRANS. LINES       88                            10
                                                 )/                                                             GUARDS                         2
                                                    10
                                                                                                                SUBSTATION         46                             8
                                                                                         )/0




                                                                                                                CONST.
                                                                                                                EQUIP.            18         15
                                                                                      100 (18
                                                                     16 (15) / 3




                                                                                                                                     Ragsdale
                                                                     1 (0) / 7




                                                                                                                                                       Road


                                                                                           42
                                                                                          14 ( (18) / 0
                                                                                              0) /
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                               I-10


                                          58 (
                                         32 ( 0) / 0
                                             0) /
                                                  0
                                                                                                                                          0 (0) / 6
                                                                                                                                         58 (0) / 0
                                                                                                                           16 (15) / 3
                                                                                                                           14(0) / 0
                                                                                   0 (0) / 6
                                                                                   0 (0) / 2




   Legend

        Direction of Traffic

   x (x) / x - AM Trips (Equipment Trips) / PM Trips
                                                                                                                                             PROJECT NO.
Hernandez, Kroone & Associates, Inc                                                DESCRIPTION
              - CONSULTING ENGINEERS                                                                                                                   08-1002
  H    PLANNING - DESIGN - SURVEYING                                                                    Project Trip
   K
                234 EAST DRAKE DRIVE
            SAN BERNARDINO, CA 92408                                                                 Distribution, PCE's                     DATE

    A
        (909) 884-3222     FAX (909) 383-1577
           E-MAIL: richardh@hkagroup.com                                                                 Figure 8                                     05-05-2010
                                                                                                                                                                 I-31
                           46 27                                                             2 22


                                                14 Off Ramp            Off Ramp     40                         On Ramp
   On Ramp
                                                                                      1
                                                                                     2
                               5 42                                                           20
                                                                                   Yield



             I-10 WEST BOUND (E-W)                                                I-10 EASTBOUND (E-W)
                      and                                                                  AND
             STATE ROUTE 177 (N-S)                                                STATE ROUTE 177 (N-S)




                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                        17
                                                                                                      SR
                                                                                         0
                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                    36
        NORTH                                                                       11
         N.T.S.
                                                                                      29 5




   Legend

        Direction of Traffic                                                    KAISER ROAD (NW-SE)
                                                                                        AND
        Stop Sign                                                             STATE ROUTE 177 (NE-SW)




                                                                                                    PROJECT NO.
Hernandez, Kroone & Associates, Inc                      DESCRIPTION
              - CONSULTING ENGINEERS                                                                         08-1002
  H    PLANNING - DESIGN - SURVEYING                          AM Background Traffic adjusted
   K
                234 EAST DRAKE DRIVE
            SAN BERNARDINO, CA 92408                              for Construction Period           DATE

    A
        (909) 884-3222     FAX (909) 383-1577
           E-MAIL: richardh@hkagroup.com                                Figure 9A                          4-07-2010
                                                                                                                  I-32
                           38 22                                                             6 19

                                                18 Off Ramp            Off Ramp     40
   On Ramp                                      1                                                              On Ramp
                                                4                                     0
                                                                                     1
                               0 43                                                           33
                                                                                   Yield



             I-10 WEST BOUND (E-W)                                                I-10 EASTBOUND (E-W)
                      and                                                                  AND
             STATE ROUTE 177 (N-S)                                                STATE ROUTE 177 (N-S)




                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                        17
                                                                                                      SR
                                                                                         1
                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                    39
        NORTH                                                                        7
         N.T.S.
                                                                                     40 4
                                                                                      1




   Legend

        Direction of Traffic                                                    KAISER ROAD (NW-SE)
                                                                                        AND
        Stop Sign                                                             STATE ROUTE 177 (NE-SW)




                                                                                                    PROJECT NO.
Hernandez, Kroone & Associates, Inc                      DESCRIPTION
              - CONSULTING ENGINEERS                                                                         08-1002
  H    PLANNING - DESIGN - SURVEYING                          PM Background Traffic Adjusted
   K
                234 EAST DRAKE DRIVE
            SAN BERNARDINO, CA 92408                          for Construction Period, PCEs         DATE

    A
        (909) 884-3222     FAX (909) 383-1577
           E-MAIL: richardh@hkagroup.com                                Figure 9B                          4-07-2010
                                                                                                                  I-33
                                 Appendix A 

                            Background Information 


                  ·   LOS Tables
                  ·   TRANSMISSION LINE Route Alternatives
                  ·   Existing Traffic Counts ­ Intersections and Freeway
                  ·   General Plan Circulation Element
                  ·   Transit Map
                  ·   Population Data




Hernandez Kroone & Associates                                     Desert Sunlight Solar Farm
April 2010                                                                      Traffic Study



                                                                                            I-34
I-35

I-36
I-37
I-38
I-39
                                                                 Counts Unlimited Inc.
                                                                 25286 Jaclyn Avenue
                                                                Moreno Valley, CA 92557
                                                                    (951) 485-7934
County of Riverside                                                                                                     File Name    : CRV17710EAM
N/S: SR-177                                                                                                             Site Code    : 10040001
E/W: I-10 Eastbound Ramps                                                                                               Start Date   : 2/17/2010
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                          Page No      :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Total Volume
                          SR-177                 I-10 Eastbound On Ramp                   SR-177              I-10 Eastbound Off Ramp
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                    Eastbound
                                        App.                            App.                          App.                          App.             Int.
   Start Time    Left   Thru Right               Left Thru Right                 Left Thru Right              Left Thru Right
                                        Total                           Total                         Total                         Total           Total
    07:00 AM       4       0       0        4       0      0      0         0       0      0     0        0     10      0      3      13              17
    07:15 AM       5       0       0        5       0      0      0         0       0      0     1        1      6      0      1        7             13
    07:30 AM       4       0       0        4       0      0      0         0       0      0     0        0      6      0      0        6             10
    07:45 AM       3       0       0        3       0      0      0         0       0      0     0        0      4      0      0        4               7
         Total    16       0       0      16        0      0      0         0       0      0     1        1     26      0      4      30              47

    08:00 AM       4       2       0        6       0      0       0        0       0      2      0      2      8       0      0        8             16
    08:15 AM       6       0       0        6       0      0       0        0       0      0      0      0      8       1      2       11             17
    08:30 AM       9       0       0        9       0      0       0        0       0      0      0      0     13       0      0       13             22
    08:45 AM       3       0       0        3       0      0       0        0       0      0      0      0     10       0      0       10             13
         Total    22       2       0       24       0      0       0        0       0      2      0      2     39       1      2       42             68

 Grand Total      38       2       0       40       0      0       0        0       0      2      1      3      65      1      6       72            115
   Apprch %       95       5       0                0      0       0                0   66.7   33.3           90.3    1.4    8.3
     Total %      33     1.7       0     34.8       0      0       0        0       0    1.7    0.9    2.6    56.5    0.9    5.2      62.6




                          SR-177                    I-10 Eastbound On Ramp               SR-177               I-10 Eastbound Off Ramp
                        Southbound                          Westbound                   Northbound                    Eastbound
                                            App.                         App.                         App.                          App.             Int.
   Start Time     Left Thru Right                   Left Thru Right              Left   Thru Right            Left Thru Right
                                           Total                         Total                        Total                         Total           Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         4        2      0         6       0      0      0       0      0      2      0      2      8       0      0        8             16
    08:15 AM         6        0      0         6       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      8       1      2       11             17
    08:30 AM         9        0      0         9       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0     13       0      0       13             22
    08:45 AM         3        0      0         3       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0     10       0      0       10             13
         Total
                   22         2      0        24       0      0      0       0      0      2      0      2     39       1      2       42             68
      Volume
       % App.
                 91.7       8.3      0                 0      0      0              0   100       0           92.9    2.4    4.8
         Total
          PHF    .611     .250    .000      .667   .000    .000   .000    .000   .000   .250   .000   .250    .750   .250   .250      .808          .773




                                                                                                                                             I-40
                                                                 Counts Unlimited Inc.
                                                                 25286 Jaclyn Avenue
                                                                Moreno Valley, CA 92557
                                                                    (951) 485-7934
County of Riverside                                                                                                                            File Name                  : CRV17710EAM
N/S: SR-177                                                                                                                                    Site Code                  : 10040001
E/W: I-10 Eastbound Ramps                                                                                                                      Start Date                 : 2/17/2010
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                                                 Page No                    :2

                                                                                SR-177
                                                                  Out             In       Total
                                                                    41              24        65


                                                                        0     2             22
                                                                    Right Thru            Left




                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                             42
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                           I-10 Eastbound On Ramp
                     I-10 Eastbound Off Ramp




                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                    39




                                                                                                                          Right Thru



                                                                                                                                               23
                                                  Left




                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                              0
                                    42


                                                            1
                                                  Right Thru
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                    0


                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                Total Volume
                                                      2




                                                                                                                          Left
                            0
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                                                                 23
                                                                    Left         Thru Right
                                                                            0        2    0


                                                                        4            2         6
                                                                  Out             In       Total
                                                                                SR-177

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Each Approach Begins at:
                07:45 AM                    07:00 AM                                     07:15 AM                       08:00 AM
     +0 mins.       3      0     0        3     0     0     0                      0         0        0      1      1       8              0                          0      8
   +15 mins.        4      2     0        6     0     0     0                      0         0        0      0      0       8              1                          2     11
   +30 mins.        6      0     0        6     0     0     0                      0         0        0      0      0      13              0                          0     13
   +45 mins.        9      0     0        9     0     0     0                      0         0        2      0      2      10              0                          0     10
        Total
                   22      2     0       24     0     0     0                      0        0         2      1      3     39               1                          2     42
      Volume
      % App.
                 91.7    8.3     0              0     0     0                               0      66.7   33.3          92.9             2.4                    4.8
        Total
         PHF     .611  .250   .000     .667  .000  .000  .000                   .000     .000      .250   .250   .375   .750            .250               .250           .808




                                                                                                                                                                                 I-41
                                                                 Counts Unlimited Inc.
                                                                 25286 Jaclyn Avenue
                                                                Moreno Valley, CA 92557
                                                                    (951) 485-7934
County of Riverside                                                                                                     File Name    : CRV17710EPM
N/S: SR-177                                                                                                             Site Code    : 10004001
E/W: I-10 Eastbound Ramps                                                                                               Start Date   : 2/17/2010
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                          Page No      :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Total Volume
                          SR-177                 I-10 Eastbound On Ramp                   SR-177              I-10 Eastbound Off Ramp
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                    Eastbound
                                        App.                            App.                          App.                          App.             Int.
   Start Time    Left   Thru Right               Left Thru Right                 Left Thru Right              Left Thru Right
                                        Total                           Total                         Total                         Total           Total
    04:00 PM       7       3       0      10        0      0      0         0       0      0     0        0      7      0      0        7             17
    04:15 PM       3       1       0        4       0      0      0         0       0      0     1        1     13      0      0      13              18
    04:30 PM       8       0       0        8       0      0      0         0       0      0     1        1     10      0      0      10              19
    04:45 PM       1       2       0        3       0      0      0         0       0      3     1        4      9      0      1      10              17
         Total    19       6       0      25        0      0      0         0       0      3     3        6     39      0      1      40              71

    05:00 PM       6       0       0        6       0      0       0        0       0      0      1      1      8       1      0        9             16
    05:15 PM       1       0       0        1       0      0       0        0       0      0      3      3      6       0      0        6             10
    05:30 PM       4       0       0        4       0      0       0        0       0      1      0      1      1       0      0        1              6
    05:45 PM       3       0       0        3       0      0       0        0       0      0      0      0      3       0      0        3              6
         Total    14       0       0       14       0      0       0        0       0      1      4      5     18       1      0       19             38

 Grand Total       33      6       0       39       0      0       0        0       0      4      7     11      57      1      1       59            109
   Apprch %      84.6   15.4       0                0      0       0                0   36.4   63.6           96.6    1.7    1.7
     Total %     30.3    5.5       0     35.8       0      0       0        0       0    3.7    6.4   10.1    52.3    0.9    0.9      54.1




                          SR-177                    I-10 Eastbound On Ramp               SR-177               I-10 Eastbound Off Ramp
                        Southbound                          Westbound                   Northbound                    Eastbound
                                            App.                         App.                         App.                          App.             Int.
   Start Time     Left Thru Right                   Left Thru Right              Left   Thru Right            Left Thru Right
                                           Total                         Total                        Total                         Total           Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM         7       3       0        10       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      7       0      0        7             17
    04:15 PM         3       1       0         4       0      0      0       0      0      0      1      1     13       0      0       13             18
    04:30 PM         8       0       0         8       0      0      0       0      0      0      1      1     10       0      0       10             19
    04:45 PM         1       2       0         3       0      0      0       0      0      3      1      4      9       0      1       10             17
         Total
                   19        6       0        25       0      0      0       0      0      3      3      6     39       0      1       40             71
      Volume
       % App.
                   76       24       0                 0      0      0              0     50    50            97.5      0    2.5
         Total
          PHF    .594     .500    .000      .625   .000    .000   .000    .000   .000   .250   .750   .375    .750   .000   .250      .769          .934




                                                                                                                                             I-42
                                                                 Counts Unlimited Inc.
                                                                 25286 Jaclyn Avenue
                                                                Moreno Valley, CA 92557
                                                                    (951) 485-7934
County of Riverside                                                                                                                            File Name                  : CRV17710EPM
N/S: SR-177                                                                                                                                    Site Code                  : 10004001
E/W: I-10 Eastbound Ramps                                                                                                                      Start Date                 : 2/17/2010
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                                                 Page No                    :2

                                                                                SR-177
                                                                  Out             In       Total
                                                                    42              25        67


                                                                        0     6             19
                                                                    Right Thru            Left




                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                             40
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                           I-10 Eastbound On Ramp
                     I-10 Eastbound Off Ramp




                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                    39




                                                                                                                          Right Thru



                                                                                                                                               22
                                                  Left




                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                              0
                                    40


                                                            0
                                                  Right Thru
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM




                                                                                                                                    0


                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                Total Volume
                                                      1




                                                                                                                          Left
                            0
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                                                                 22
                                                                    Left         Thru Right
                                                                            0        3    3


                                                                        7            6        13
                                                                  Out             In       Total
                                                                                SR-177

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Each Approach Begins at:
                04:00 PM                    04:00 PM                                     04:30 PM                       04:15 PM
     +0 mins.       7      3     0       10     0      0    0                      0         0        0      1      1      13              0                          0     13
   +15 mins.        3      1     0        4     0      0    0                      0         0        3      1      4      10              0                          0     10
   +30 mins.        8      0     0        8     0      0    0                      0         0        0      1      1       9              0                          1     10
   +45 mins.        1      2     0        3     0      0    0                      0         0        0      3      3       8              1                          0      9
        Total
                   19      6     0       25     0      0    0                      0        0         3      6      9     40               1                          1     42
      Volume
      % App.
                   76     24     0              0      0    0                               0      33.3   66.7          95.2             2.4                    2.4
        Total
         PHF     .594   .500  .000     .625  .000   .000 .000                   .000     .000      .250   .500   .563   .769            .250               .250           .808




                                                                                                                                                                                 I-43
                                                                 Counts Unlimited Inc.
                                                                 25286 Jaclyn Avenue
                                                                Moreno Valley, CA 92557
                                                                    (951) 485-7934
County of Riverside                                                                                                    File Name    : CRV17710WAM
N/S: SR-177                                                                                                            Site Code    : 10040001
E/W: I-10 Westbound Ramps                                                                                              Start Date   : 2/17/2010
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                         Page No      :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Total Volume
                          SR-177                 I-10 Westbound Off Ramp                   SR-177             I-10 Westbound On Ramp
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                   Eastbound
                                        App.                            App.                          App.                         App.             Int.
   Start Time    Left   Thru Right               Left Thru Right                 Left Thru Right              Left Thru Right
                                        Total                           Total                         Total                        Total           Total
    07:00 AM        0      5       8      13        0      2      1         3       0     10      0     10       0      0     0        0             26
    07:15 AM        0      7      10      17        0      0      6         6       5       6     0     11       0      0     0        0             34
    07:30 AM        0      3       6        9       0      0      3         3       1       5     0       6      0      0     0        0             18
    07:45 AM        0      3       8      11        0      0      4         4       2       4     0       6      0      0     0        0             21
         Total      0     18      32      50        0      2     14        16       8     25      0     33       0      0     0        0             99

    08:00 AM        0      7      11       18       0      0       4        4       4      9      0     13       0      0      0        0            35
    08:15 AM        0      6      13       19       0      0       2        2       1      8      0      9       0      0      0        0            30
    08:30 AM        0      9      11       20       0      0       3        3       0     14      0     14       0      0      0        0            37
    08:45 AM        0      4      10       14       0      0       5        5       0     10      0     10       0      0      0        0            29
         Total      0     26      45       71       0      0      14       14       5     41      0     46       0      0      0        0           131

 Grand Total        0     44      77      121       0      2      28       30      13     66      0     79       0      0      0        0           230
   Apprch %         0   36.4    63.6                0    6.7    93.3             16.5   83.5      0              0      0      0
     Total %        0   19.1    33.5     52.6       0    0.9    12.2       13     5.7   28.7      0   34.3       0      0      0        0




                          SR-177                   I-10 Westbound Off Ramp               SR-177               I-10 Westbound On Ramp
                        Southbound                         Westbound                    Northbound                   Eastbound
                                            App.                         App.                         App.                         App.             Int.
   Start Time     Left Thru Right                   Left Thru Right              Left   Thru Right            Left Thru Right
                                           Total                         Total                        Total                        Total           Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0       7      11        18      0      0      4        4      4      9      0     13       0      0      0        0            35
    08:15 AM         0       6      13        19      0      0      2        2      1      8      0      9       0      0      0        0            30
    08:30 AM         0       9      11        20      0      0      3        3      0     14      0     14       0      0      0        0            37
    08:45 AM         0       4      10        14      0      0      5        5      0     10      0     10       0      0      0        0            29
         Total
                     0      26      45        71      0      0     14       14      5     41      0     46       0      0      0        0           131
      Volume
       % App.
                     0 36.6       63.4                0      0    100            10.9   89.1      0              0      0      0
         Total
          PHF    .000     .722    .865      .888   .000   .000   .700     .700   .313   .732   .000   .821    .000   .000   .000     .000          .885




                                                                                                                                            I-44
                                                               Counts Unlimited Inc.
                                                               25286 Jaclyn Avenue
                                                              Moreno Valley, CA 92557
                                                                  (951) 485-7934
County of Riverside                                                                                                                       File Name                       : CRV17710WAM
N/S: SR-177                                                                                                                               Site Code                       : 10040001
E/W: I-10 Westbound Ramps                                                                                                                 Start Date                      : 2/17/2010
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                                            Page No                         :2

                                                                             SR-177
                                                                Out            In        Total
                                                                  55             71        126


                                                                     45   26                  0
                                                                  Right Thru           Left




                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                           50
                                        Total




                                                                                                                                          I-10 Westbound Off Ramp
                     I-10 Westbound On Ramp




                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                0




                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                                      Left




                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                              North




                                                                                                                            14
                                    0


                                                          0
                                                Right Thru
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                              Total Volume
                                                    0




                                                                                                                         Left
                          50
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                                                                 14
                                                                  Left        Thru Right
                                                                         5      41     0


                                                                  26             46         72
                                                                Out            In        Total
                                                                             SR-177

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Each Approach Begins at:
                08:00 AM                    07:15 AM                                  08:00 AM                         07:00 AM
     +0 mins.       0     7     11       18     0     0     6                   6         4     9           0    13        0              0                           0       0
   +15 mins.        0     6     13       19     0     0     3                   3         1     8           0     9        0              0                           0       0
   +30 mins.        0     9     11       20     0     0     4                   4         0    14           0    14        0              0                           0       0
   +45 mins.        0     4     10       14     0     0     4                   4         0    10           0    10        0              0                           0       0
        Total
                    0    26     45       71     0     0    17                 17          5        41       0    46        0              0                           0       0
      Volume
      % App.
                    0 36.6    63.4              0     0   100                         10.9        89.1      0              0              0                           0
        Total
         PHF     .000  .722   .865     .888  .000  .000  .708                .708     .313        .732   .000   .821   .000            .000                .000            .000




                                                                                                                                                                                  I-45
                                                                 Counts Unlimited Inc.
                                                                 25286 Jaclyn Avenue
                                                                Moreno Valley, CA 92557
                                                                    (951) 485-7934
County of Riverside                                                                                                    File Name    : CRV17710WPM
N/S: SR-177                                                                                                            Site Code    : 10040001
E/W: I-10 Westbound Ramps                                                                                              Start Date   : 2/17/2010
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                         Page No      :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Total Volume
                          SR-177                 I-10 Westbound Off Ramp                  SR-177              I-10 Westbound On Ramp
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                   Eastbound
                                        App.                            App.                          App.                         App.              Int.
   Start Time    Left   Thru Right               Left Thru Right                 Left Thru Right              Left Thru Right
                                        Total                           Total                         Total                        Total           Total
    04:00 PM        0      8      12      20        4      0      6        10       0      7     0        7      0      0     0        0              37
    04:15 PM        0      4      12      16        0      0      6         6       0     13     0      13       0      0     0        0              35
    04:30 PM        0      8      11      19        0      0      2         2       0     10     0      10       0      0     0        0              31
    04:45 PM        0      2       2        4       0      1      4         5       0     12     0      12       0      0     0        0              21
         Total      0     22      37      59        4      1     18        23       0     42     0      42       0      0     0        0            124

    05:00 PM        0      5       4        9       1      2       5        8       0      8      0      8       0      0      0        0             25
    05:15 PM        0      1      11       12       0      0       3        3       0      6      0      6       0      0      0        0             21
    05:30 PM        0      4       3        7       0      0       6        6       0      1      0      1       0      0      0        0             14
    05:45 PM        0      4       0        4       0      0       5        5       0      3      0      3       0      0      0        0             12
        Total       0     14      18       32       1      2      19       22       0     18      0     18       0      0      0        0             72

 Grand Total        0     36      55       91       5      3      37       45       0     60      0     60       0      0      0        0           196
   Apprch %         0   39.6    60.4             11.1    6.7    82.2                0    100      0              0      0      0
     Total %        0   18.4    28.1     46.4     2.6    1.5    18.9       23       0   30.6      0   30.6       0      0      0        0




                          SR-177                   I-10 Westbound Off Ramp               SR-177               I-10 Westbound On Ramp
                        Southbound                         Westbound                    Northbound                   Eastbound
                                            App.                         App.                         App.                         App.             Int.
   Start Time     Left Thru Right                   Left Thru Right              Left   Thru Right            Left Thru Right
                                           Total                         Total                        Total                        Total           Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM         0       8      12        20      4       0     6       10      0      7      0      7       0      0      0        0             37
    04:15 PM         0       4      12        16      0       0     6        6      0     13      0     13       0      0      0        0             35
    04:30 PM         0       8      11        19      0       0     2        2      0     10      0     10       0      0      0        0             31
    04:45 PM         0       2       2         4      0       1     4        5      0     12      0     12       0      0      0        0             21
         Total
                     0      22      37        59      4       1    18       23      0     42      0     42       0      0      0        0           124
      Volume
       % App.
                     0 37.3       62.7             17.4     4.3  78.3               0   100       0              0      0      0
         Total
          PHF    .000     .688    .771      .738   .250   .250   .750     .575   .000   .808   .000   .808    .000   .000   .000     .000          .838




                                                                                                                                            I-46
                                                               Counts Unlimited Inc.
                                                               25286 Jaclyn Avenue
                                                              Moreno Valley, CA 92557
                                                                  (951) 485-7934
County of Riverside                                                                                                                       File Name                       : CRV17710WPM
N/S: SR-177                                                                                                                               Site Code                       : 10040001
E/W: I-10 Westbound Ramps                                                                                                                 Start Date                      : 2/17/2010
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                                            Page No                         :2

                                                                             SR-177
                                                                Out            In        Total
                                                                  60             59        119


                                                                     37   22                  0
                                                                  Right Thru           Left




                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                           38
                                        Total




                                                                                                                                          I-10 Westbound Off Ramp
                     I-10 Westbound On Ramp




                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                0




                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                                      Left




                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                              North




                                                                                                                            18
                                    0


                                                          0
                                                Right Thru
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                       23
                                                                                                                                   1
                                                              Total Volume
                                                    0




                                                                                                                         Left
                          38
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                4


                                                                                                                                                                 23
                                                                  Left        Thru Right
                                                                         0      42     0


                                                                  26             42         68
                                                                Out            In        Total
                                                                             SR-177

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Each Approach Begins at:
                04:00 PM                    04:00 PM                                  04:15 PM                         04:00 PM
     +0 mins.       0      8    12       20     4       0    6                10          0        13       0    13        0              0                           0       0
   +15 mins.        0      4    12       16     0       0    6                 6          0        10       0    10        0              0                           0       0
   +30 mins.        0      8    11       19     0       0    2                 2          0        12       0    12        0              0                           0       0
   +45 mins.        0      2     2        4     0       1    4                 5          0         8       0     8        0              0                           0       0
        Total
                    0     22    37       59     4       1   18                23          0        43       0    43        0              0                           0       0
      Volume
      % App.
                    0 37.3    62.7           17.4     4.3 78.3                            0       100       0              0              0                           0
        Total
         PHF     .000   .688  .771     .738  .250   .250  .750               .575     .000        .827   .000   .827   .000            .000                .000            .000




                                                                                                                                                                                  I-47
                                                                   Counts Unlimited Inc.
                                                                   25286 Jaclyn Avenue
                                                                  Moreno Valley, CA 92557
                                                                      (951) 485-7934
County of Riverside                                                                                                      File Name     : CRV177KAAM
N/S: SR-177                                                                                                              Site Code     : 10040001
E/W: Kaiser Road                                                                                                         Start Date    : 2/17/2010
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                           Page No       :1


                                                                Groups Printed- Total Volume
                                      SR-177                                    SR-177                        Kaiser Road
                                    Southbound                               Northbound                        Eastbound
           Start Time        Thru       Right  App. Total             Left        Thru    App. Total   Left       Right   App. Total       Int. Total
            07:00 AM            5           2           7                5            5          10      0            1            1              18
            07:15 AM           10           0         10                 1            4            5     0            3            3              18
            07:30 AM            5           0           5                3            4            7     0            2            2              14
            07:45 AM            4           1           5                0            1            1     0            5            5              11
                 Total         24           3         27                 9          14           23      0           11          11               61

            08:00 AM            6            0             6             0          5             5      0           2            2               13
            08:15 AM           11            0            11             1          8             9      0           2            2               22
            08:30 AM           11            1            12             1          7             8      0           3            3               23
            08:45 AM            7            0             7             3          8            11      0           4            4               22
                 Total         35            1            36             5         28            33      0          11           11               80

          Grand Total          59            4            63            14         42            56      0          22           22              141
            Apprch %         93.7          6.3                          25         75                    0         100
              Total %        41.8          2.8          44.7           9.9       29.8          39.7      0        15.6          15.6




                                        SR-177                              SR-177                          Kaiser Road
                                      Southbound                           Northbound                        Eastbound
           Start Time          Thru        Right   App. Total         Left     Thru   App. Total       Left     Right   App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
            08:00 AM               6            0           6            0          5             5       0          2            2               13
            08:15 AM              11            0          11            1          8             9       0          2            2               22
            08:30 AM              11            1          12            1          7             8       0          3            3               23
            08:45 AM               7            0           7            3          8            11       0          4            4               22
        Total Volume              35            1          36            5         28            33       0         11           11               80
        % App. Total            97.2          2.8                     15.2       84.8                     0        100
                  PHF           .795        .250         .750         .417       .875          .750    .000       .688          .688             .870




                                                                                                                                          I-48
                                                          Counts Unlimited Inc.
                                                          25286 Jaclyn Avenue
                                                         Moreno Valley, CA 92557
                                                             (951) 485-7934
County of Riverside                                                                                                   File Name    : CRV177KAAM
N/S: SR-177                                                                                                           Site Code    : 10040001
E/W: Kaiser Road                                                                                                      Start Date   : 2/17/2010
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                        Page No      :2

                                                                    SR-177
                                                           Out        In            Total
                                                             28         36             64


                                                                      1   35
                                                                  Right Thru




                                                        Peak Hour Data
                             17
                          Total




                                                                     North
                                     0
                       Kaiser Road




                                         Left
                               11
                             In




                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                        11
                                     Right




                                                         Total Volume
                      6
                          Out




                                                                  Left       Thru
                                                                         5     28


                                                             46         33             79
                                                           Out        In            Total
                                                                    SR-177

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Each Approach Begins at:
                       08:00 AM                         08:00 AM                                   07:15 AM

             +0 mins.
         6           0        6           0                5            5            0      3            3
            +15 mins.         11           0       11           1                8            9            0      2            2
            +30 mins.         11           1       12           1                7            8            0      5            5
            +45 mins.          7           0        7           3                8           11            0      2            2
        Total Volume          35           1       36           5               28           33            0     12           12
        % App. Total        97.2         2.8                 15.2             84.8                         0    100
                 PHF        .795       .250      .750        .417             .875          .750        .000   .600         .600




                                                                                                                                      I-49
                                                                    Counts Unlimited Inc.
                                                                    25286 Jaclyn Avenue
                                                                   Moreno Valley, CA 92557
                                                                       (951) 485-7934
County of Riverside                                                                                                       File Name     : CRV177KAPM
N/S: SR-177                                                                                                               Site Code     : 10040001
E/W: Kaiser Road                                                                                                          Start Date    : 2/17/2010
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                            Page No       :1


                                                                 Groups Printed- Total Volume
                                       SR-177                                    SR-177                        Kaiser Road
                                     Southbound                               Northbound                        Eastbound
           Start Time         Thru       Right  App. Total             Left        Thru    App. Total   Left       Right   App. Total       Int. Total
            04:00 PM            13           1         14                 3          11           14      0            1            1              29
            04:15 PM            15           0         15                 5          12           17      0            3            3              35
            04:30 PM             6           0           6                4            9          13      0            2            2              21
            04:45 PM             4           0           4                2            7            9     1            1            2              15
                 Total          38           1         39                14          39           53      1            7            8             100

            05:00 PM             4           0              4             4          4             8      0           1                1           13
            05:15 PM             7           0              7             1          6             7      0           3                3           17
            05:30 PM             4           0              4             0          8             8      0           0                0           12
            05:45 PM             4           0              4             2          6             8      0           1                1           13
                 Total          19           0             19             7         24            31      0           5                5           55

          Grand Total           57           1             58            21         63            84       1         12           13              155
            Apprch %          98.3         1.7                           25         75                   7.7       92.3
              Total %         36.8         0.6           37.4          13.5       40.6          54.2     0.6        7.7           8.4




                                        SR-177                               SR-177                          Kaiser Road
                                      Southbound                            Northbound                        Eastbound
           Start Time          Thru        Right    App. Total         Left     Thru   App. Total       Left     Right   App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
            04:00 PM              13            1           14            3         11            14       0          1                1           29
            04:15 PM              15            0           15            5         12            17       0          3                3           35
            04:30 PM               6            0            6            4          9            13       0          2                2           21
            04:45 PM               4            0            4            2          7             9       1          1                2           15
        Total Volume              38            1           39           14         39            53       1          7                8          100
        % App. Total            97.4          2.6                      26.4       73.6                  12.5       87.5
                  PHF           .633        .250          .650         .700       .813          .779    .250       .583          .667             .714




                                                                                                                                           I-50
