 VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY
   LANCASTER AVENUE
STUDENT RESIDENT HALLS


TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
     ASSESSMENT




        Radnor Township
  Delaware County, Pennsylvania


    prepared for submission to:
    RADNOR TOWNSHIP

           prepared by:
F. TAVANI AND ASSOCIATES, INC.


        27 AUGUST 2013
             REVISED
       21 FEBRUARY 2012

                                   Frank Tavani, P.E., PTOE
                              Pennsylvania License # 052846-E
                                  FTA JOB NUMBER 211-027
                         TABLE OF CONTENTS

PROLOGUE                                                       1­2
    PROJECT HISTORY AND BACKGROUND
    DOCUMENT AND AUDIENCE

INTRODUCTION                                                   3­5
    GENERAL SITE DESCRIPTION
    TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES DESCRIPTION

EXISTING TRAFFIC CONDITIONS                                    6

TRANSPORTATION IMPACT OF THE DEVELOPMENT                       7 ­ 11
    BACKGROUND GROWTH
    ANALYSIS OF TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
    CONCLUSIONS AND OFFERED IMPROVEMENTS

ADDITIONAL REQUESTED INFORMATION                               12 ­ 14
    PARKING
    SPECIAL EVENT PARKING MANAGEMENT
    ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

TECHNICAL APPENDIX
        VILLANOVA CAMPUS MAP and KEY                           15 ­ 16
        MULTI-WAY STOP WARRANT INFORMATION                     17 ­ 21
        LOS EXPLANATION and COMPARISON TABLES                  22 ­ 28
        GROWTH RATE DOCUMENTATION                              29
        BACKGROUND GROWTH SPREADSHEET                          30 ­ 32
        TRIP GENERATION SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS                   33 ­ 57
        TRIP DISTRIBUTION WORKSHEET FIGURES and SPREADSHEETS   58 ­ 83
        MANUAL TRAFFIC COUNTS and PEAK HOUR DETERMINATION      84 ­ 174
        SYNCHRO OUTPUTS                                        175 ­ 401
        MEETING MINUTES                                        402 ­ 413
        DELIVERABLE REVIEW LETTERS and SUBSEQUENT RESPONSES    414 ­ 446
        EXISTING AND PROPOSED PARKING FIGURES                  447 ­ 448
        CAMPUS-WIDE PARKING DEMAND SUMMARY ­ CLASS DAYS        449
        CAMPUS-WIDE PARKING DEMAND SUMMARY ­ BASKETBALL        450
        WEST CAMPUS PARKING TURNOVER INVESTIGATIONS            451 ­ 452
        PEDESTRIAN VOLUMES                                     453 ­ 454
        FIGURES (SEE NEXT PAGE FOR MORE DETAILS)               455 ­ 476
        SPECIAL EVENT VOLUME FIGURES                           477 ­ 478
        SIGNAL PLANS                                           479 ­ 490
                               LIST OF FIGURES

#    Description                                                          Page #


1    Study Area and Surrounding Roadways                                       455

2    Site Plan Excerpt                                                         456

3    Existing Weekday AM Peak Hour Traffic Volumes                             457

4    Existing Weekday PM Peak Hour Traffic Volumes                             458

5    Existing Weekday AM Peak Hour Levels of Service                           459

6    Existing Weekday PM Peak Hour Levels of Service                           460

7    Future No Build Weekday AM Peak Hour Traffic Volumes                      461

8    Future No Build Weekday PM Peak Hour Traffic Volumes                      462

9    Future No Build Weekday AM Peak Hour Levels of Service                    463

10   Future No Build Weekday PM Peak Hour Levels of Service                    464

11   "Pike Quadrant" Trip Distribution and AM Peak Hour Traffic Volumes        465

12   "Pike Quadrant" Trip Distribution and PM Peak Hour Traffic Volumes        466

13   "Main Quadrant" Trip Distribution and AM Peak Hour Traffic Volumes        467

14   "Main Quadrant" Trip Distribution and PM Peak Hour Traffic Volumes        468

15   "HSB & SAC Quadrant" Trip Distribution and AM Peak Hour Traffic Volumes 469

16   "HSB & SAC Quadrant" Trip Distribution and PM Peak Hour Traffic Volumes   470

17   Site-Wide Weekday AM Peak Hour Volumes                                    471

18   Site-Wide Weekday PM Peak Hour Volumes                                    472

19   Future Build Weekday AM Peak Hour Traffic Volumes                         473

20   Future Build Weekday PM Peak Hour Traffic Volumes                         474

21   Future Build Weekday AM Peak Hour Levels of Service                       475

22   Future Build Weekday PM Peak Hour Levels of Service                       476
                                         PROLOGUE

PROJECT HISTORY AND BACKGROUND

A proposed ordinance change in Radnor Township could result in redevelopment of Villanova
University ("Villanova") lands. Specifically, a potential outcome of the proposed ordinance
could be construction of a new undergraduate student residence halls providing up to 1,159 beds
on a large parking lot (known as "Main Lot") near the intersection of Lancaster Avenue and
Ithan Avenue. A new parking structure would be constructed nearby on a smaller parking lot
known as Pike Lot. As part of the redevelopment, 113 additional parking spaces above and
beyond what exists today would be provided.

In late 2011, F. Tavani and Associates, Inc. (FTA) conducted some traffic investigations relative
to the project. Subsequent discussions with Radnor Township staff ("staff") and the township's
traffic engineer (Gilmore & Associates, Inc. ["Gilmore"]) and PennDOT came later, beginning
in March 2012.

In late April 2012, a working meeting between Villanova, FTA, staff, and Gilmore occurred and
a request for a scope of work was made by FTA. In mid June 2012, a response was received.
Overall project efforts and discussions with the township continued throughout the summer and
data collection (traffic counts) took place in the fall of 2012 after classes had resumed. In
October and November of 2012, two additional meetings occurred. The township, Gilmore, and
PennDOT participated. Meeting minutes were prepared and circulated for confirmation of
subsequent actions. Copies of the accepted meeting minutes and one attachment (a string of
emails sent just before the meetings but covering some of the same topics discussed at the
meetings) are provided in the appendix of this report.

A specific outcome of the meetings was a suggestion by Gilmore to submit traffic study efforts
in `parts' so that both staff and Gilmore could have a hand in reviewing tasks as they progressed.
The first submittal ­ known as Deliverable #1 ­ was issued in mid January 2013. PennDOT was
copied and asked to provide feedback as a courtesy even though an official submittal was not
being made to them (since an official plan was not yet finished, since the ordinance was not yet
adopted). In early February 2013, Gilmore issued a response to this deliverable. The response
was brief and generally agreed with the contents of the submittal, though some revisions were
suggested. The response concluded with "none of the above comments require a response or a
resubmission of Deliverable #1".

The next submittal ­ known as Deliverable #2 ­ was made to the township, Gilmore, and
PennDOT via email in late February 2013. In mid April 2013, Gilmore issued a response to this
individual deliverable. The response generally agreed with the contents of the submittal, though
some revisions were suggested. The response concluded with "none of the above comments
elicits a response or a resubmission of Deliverable #2".

In early March 2013, PennDOT issued a response which addressed both deliverables. The
response was brief and generally agreed with the contents of the submittals, though some
revisions were suggested and one issue with regard to trip generation required additional
clarification. FTA sent an email to PennDOT the same day the response was received. The
email identified an interpretation of the trip generation issue and the township and Gilmore were
copied. PennDOT replied the next day confirming the interpretation. A copy of the PennDOT
review letter and the mentioned emails are provided in the appendix of this report.
                                                                                                     1
The final deliverable, this Transportation Impact Assessment (TIA), is the end result of the
earlier working meetings, submittals, reviews, multiple neighbor meetings, multiple public
meetings, and any and all of the many other traffic- and project-related efforts expended to this
point in time.

Deliverables 1 and 2 are stand-alone documents and are hundreds of pages. They are not
included in the appendix of this report. However, the Township responses, as mentioned earlier,
are provided in the appendix. Note that while some of the comments in the Gilmore responses
do not require written follow-up, others do, and so the Deliverable reviews (by Gilmore)
provided in the appendix are followed by subsequent responses by FTA.

DOCUMENT AND AUDIENCE

As noted on the cover, this report was prepared for submittal to Radnor Township. It was
prepared based on the written requirements of the section of the township ordinance which
pertains to traffic studies, namely SALDO 255-20.B(5)(d). It was also prepared to address the
supplemental (non-written in the ordinance) requirements as stipulated by staff and Gilmore
during the meetings held in the fall of 2012. The first three sections of this report address the
written requirements of the ordinance. The last section of this report ­ Additional Requested
Information ­ addresses these supplemental requests as stipulated by staff and Gilmore.

The appendix of this document is arranged in as logical a fashion as is practical. One deviation
from typical traffic report outline is the inclusion of key figures at the end of the appendix rather
than the beginning of the appendix. This was done to consolidate all of the tabloid-format
figures and other similarly-sized appendix items in the same location.




                                                                                                        2
                                       INTRODUCTION


GENERAL SITE DESCRIPTION

The proposed project includes construction of new student residence halls on the site of the
current parking lot (Main Lot) which is located in the southwest corner of the intersection of
Lancaster Avenue and Ithan Avenue. The resident halls will be built in multiple buildings and
will provide a total of 1,159 new beds for undergraduate student housing on Villanova
University (Villanova)'s existing main campus in Radnor Township.

As a result of the new construction on Main Lot, existing surface parking space there will be
lost. To recover the lost spaces, a new parking structure is proposed on the opposite side of
Ithan Avenue on an existing surface parking lot called Pike Lot. The parking structure built on
Pike Lot will feature 1,230 spaces. In addition to this parking, some surface parking will be
provided near the new student residences though this will be limited to about 147 spaces.
Existing parking near the site used by the Admissions Department will neither increase nor
decrease and will essentially be replaced in kind (about 80 spaces). In addition, the project
includes a consolidation of several small parking lots to the west of the site. All told, a net
increase of 113 spaces above what will be displaced by the project is proposed.

Current parking demands on campus never approach parking supply (i.e., capacity) and
additional parking spaces are generally not needed. However, a placeholder has been shown on
the site plan for a new performing arts center (PAC) which is part of the University's long range
master plan and the additional 113 spaces will be required for the PAC to be code compliant
with respect to parking. Since the more immediate undertakings of the project involve
construction of a new parking structure, adding parking spaces at some later time (for the PAC)
is impractical.

The proposed project anticipates some changes to existing points of access (driveways).
Existing driveways along Ithan Avenue will be repositioned, several existing points of access for
various buildings located west of the site will be eliminated and consolidated into a new right-
in/right-out only driveway which accesses the new West Lancaster parking lot. This lot will also
serve spaces designated for commuting students. In addition to the proposed unsignalized right-
in/right-out driveway, the new lot will also have access to the existing signalized intersection of
Lancaster Avenue and the drive opposite Church Walk, thereby facilitating left-in and left-out
turning movements. Figures 1 and 2 provide further details regarding size and location of the
project.

The immediate area of existing land development includes other Villanova University buildings
and facilities. Beyond Villanova, other major existing land development in the area includes
residential homes, some office, and some recreational space. No other land developments in the
vicinity of the site are proposed by others (or by Villanova) at present. The socioeconomic
characteristics of the site will fit the profile of typical college students.

TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES DESCRIPTION

The project includes new parking, roadways, and pedestrian facilities, all of which are detailed
in the plan set prepared by the site civil engineer. The facilities will connect with other internal
pathways/roadways as well as external streets as depicted in the plans. Figure 2 features an
excerpt of the site plan providing some added details.
                                                                                                       3
The project calls for the consolidation of existing points of access for several free-standing
buildings located west of the project, namely buildings 19, 24, 26, 39, and 56 as identified in the
Villanova Campus Map and Key which is provided at the beginning of the appendix of this
report. Each of these buildings currently features its own unrestricted (i.e., all turning
movements permitted) unsignalized driveway along Lancaster Avenue which leads to a small
parking lot. As seen in Figure 2, these lots are proposed to be consolidated into one larger lot
and access is proposed to be consolidated into one right-in/right-out driveway. As also shown in
the Figure, left turning entry and exit movements destined to this lot can be accommodated via
an existing signalized intersection just east of Moriarty Hall (#39).

The redevelopment of Pike Lot includes a new parking structure with 1,230 parking spaces, the
majority of which will be for cars owned by residents of the new halls and thus will not be
moving during peak hours. More about this is covered later in this report. From a facility
standpoint, the structure is proposed to take access to the surrounding roadway network via the
same three driveways which exist today (two along Ithan Avenue and one along Lancaster
Avenue), though each will feature subtle changes to turning movements. This is also true for the
driveways serving Main Lot. A summary of the proposed changes follows.

   Lancaster Avenue Driveway to/from Pike Lot (new Parking Structure): This driveway is
   presently an exit-only driveway with left-turns out restricted. The project contemplates placing
   greater emphasis on this driveway by `upgrading' it to a right-in/right-out/left-in driveway. The
   addition of the left-in movement requires a new left-turn lane along Lancaster Avenue, which
   Villanova would provide. More details on this are presented later. The benefit of this proposed
   arrangement is traffic originating from or destined to the east would be able to access the garage
   directly without having to burden Ithan Avenue, thereby reducing traffic volumes at the
   intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Ithan Avenue as well as along Ithan Avenue itself. The
   presence of signalized control at the intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Ithan Avenue means
   gaps in eastbound through traffic along Lancaster Avenue will be provided, thereby assisting
   vehicles in making the left-turn entering movement at this location.

   Ithan Avenue N. Driveway to/from Pike Lot (new Parking Structure): This driveway is
   presently an exit-only driveway with both left and right turns permitted. The project
   contemplates changing this driveway to a right-in/right-out driveway and also relocating it
   slightly more to the south than where the existing driveway is currently located. This driveway
   will serve a small role in the operation of the garage and is essentially an added `relief valve' to
   support the activity at the primary point of access (see next description) and the secondary point
   of access (see previous description).

   Ithan Avenue S. Driveway to/from Pike Lot (new Parking Structure): This driveway is
   presently an entrance-only driveway with both left and right turns permitted. The project
   contemplates changing this driveway to a full-access driveway which will be relocated to the
   south to align opposite a driveway for Main Lot (see next section). The new four-leg intersection
   that will be created will be an improvement over the existing dog-leg arrangement of current
   driveways. The alignment will also permit all-way stop control, which is suggested for this
   location. Information regarding PennDOT standards for multi-way stops is provided in the
   appendix. PennDOT pub 212 references the standards of the MUTCD, the pertinent sections of
   which are also provided in the appendix. While different criteria exist, one related to volumes
   requires a minimum of 300 vph on the major street (two-way) per hour for any 8 hours of a
   typical day and a minimum of 200 vehicular, pedestrian, or bicycle minor street crossings per
   hour for any 8 hours of a typical day. While this cannot be fully investigated and confirmed at
   this time, it is projected that both of these criteria will be met in the future when the project is
   complete, especially since pedestrian crossing activity between the halls and the garage will be a
   component of activity along Ithan Avenue. Installation of an all-way stop will also permit the
                                                                                                          4
   installation of crosswalks connecting each side of Ithan Avenue, which is also suggested,
   especially given the absence of sidewalk along the west side of Ithan Avenue south of this
   intersection (due to width constraints caused by the Route 100 rail line overpass). Finally,
   another characteristic of this access ­ and its proposed alignment with the driveway on the
   opposite side of Ithan Avenue ­ is the potential for some motorists destined to or originating from
   the west may choose to navigate to/from the parking structure by way of the internal roadway
   skirting the southern border of the proposed residence halls and emerging at the existing
   signalized intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Villanova Parking Lot Drive. Some motorists
   taking this route would benefit the study area since it would reduce traffic at the intersection of
   Lancaster Avenue and Ithan Avenue. It would also not pose a significant conflict with the
   parking south of the residence halls since only about 75 spaces are located on the other side of the
   path of the mentioned motorists and it is likely that those spaces will be occupied by student-
   owned (i.e. non-peak hour moving) cars. Most pedestrian activity between the residence halls and
   the campus will be to the north and east of the project ­ well away from the path just described.

   Lancaster Avenue and West Lancaster Lots RIRO Driveway: This driveway was already
   described in detail on the previous page. It is important to emphasize, however, the significance
   and benefit of the closure of six (6) existing, unrestricted, unsignalized intersection (driveways)
   along Lancaster Avenue. While none of these driveways are extremely active or particularly
   problematic, the ability to make left turn movements both in and out will occasionally create
   conflict and delay with through movements along Lancaster Avenue in either or both directions
   along the arterial. The elimination of these driveways (and replacement of same with a
   consolidated right-in/right-out driveway and shared access to an existing signalized intersection)
   provides a benefit to traffic flow and the neighboring community.

All of the aforementioned driveways can be seen in the site plan excerpt (Figure 2) for more
detail. Other aspects of the project such as rights of way, road widths, parking conditions, etc.
can be found in the plan set provided by the civil engineer.

The ordinance states that a project's design shall be shown "...to maximize potential public
transportation usage..." Mass transit stations are immediately adjacent to the project including a
rail line station and bus routes near to the project. Most importantly, the project itself will
reduce traffic in the study area by taking currently-commuting students and bringing them to live
on campus, thereby eliminating the need for these individuals to commute to Villanova. This in
fact is the very purpose of mass transit (to eliminate/reduce automobile trips on a road network).
The external roadway system includes Route 30, which is a major east-west collector and arterial
in the region. It is a four-lane, two-way roadway. Route 320, which is a significant north-south
route, is also in the study area. It is a two-lane, two-way roadway. Major intersections in the
study area are signalized and signal plans found in the appendix of this report provide details
regarding road width, lane configurations, etc.




                                                                                                          5
                                  EXISTING CONDITIONS


The site will generate traffic at various times throughout the day, though typical weekday
commuter peak periods (i.e., 7:00-9:00 AM and 4:00-6:00 PM) are when the demands of the site
plus existing traffic at study area intersection will be at a combined maximum. Data collection
for this study was scheduled reflective of this and was performed by FTA principally in 2012 to
focus on these hours. Automatic traffic recorder (ATR) counts were performed by FTA to
further investigate and corroborate the necessity of focusing on these peak periods. FTA also
gathered available ATR data from the Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission
(DVRPC) for this purpose. All of these traffic counts (manual and ATR counts by FTA) are
included in the appendix, including a spreadsheet summary of peak hour determination
investigations. Confirmation of the use of these peak hours (as well as other pertinent aspects of
data collection) was carried out through the submission of Deliverable #1, the subsequent review
of which is provided in the appendix.

The existing peak hour (clock hour) varied slightly from location to location but was typically
7:30 to 8:30 AM and 5:00 to 6:00 PM. Turning movement peak hour volumes are presented in
Figures 3 and 4. Pedestrian crossings were also counted and are presented in separate figures in
the appendix.

Level of service investigations were conducted using the latest Synchro software (version 8) as
well as system interconnect timings and other signal plan data as gathered from PennDOT
District 6-0. Most intersections operate at overall levels of service C or better during both peak
hours though some exceptions do exist. Level of service are summarized in comparison tables
found in the appendix and are illustrated in Figures 5 and 6. Note that the unsignalized dog-leg
intersections of N. and S. Ithan Avenue and County Line Road feature non-standard traffic
control arrangements which are not illustrated in the latest highway capacity manual so Synchro-
derived ICU levels of service were plotted.

Traffic volumes are considerable in the study area but are generally well managed. Some of the
more notable delays occur at the intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Spring Mill Road /
Kenilworth Road / Aldwyn Lane, but delays here are largely a function of the many legs of the
intersection (6). Additionally, some delays also occur at the intersection of Lancaster Avenue
and Ithan Avenue. Here, the delays are partly due to a 26-second all-red ped-scramble phase
during which time all traffic is stopped (all approaches) so that pedestrians can cross in any
direction through the intersection. While this helps control speeding on Lancaster Avenue ­
which is a concern expressed by some residents ­ it does also create some delay (which is also a
concern expressed by some residents).

There are many different ways to address delays at this or any intersection. One example is
adding capacity to various traffic movements (i.e., adding more turning lanes or more through
lanes, extending existing turning lanes, etc.) while another is to reduce traffic being sent to the
intersection. A third option is to reduce the amount of green time allocated to non-main street
phases (assuming the majority of delays are found on the main street). In the case of the
intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Ithan Avenue, all these options are being included as part
of the project as discussed later in this report.




                                                                                                      6
                TRANSPORTATION IMPACT OF THE DEVELOPMENT


BACKGROUND GROWTH

The next scenario investigated was the Future No Build scenario. This scenario takes existing
traffic volumes and increases or `grows' them to some degree to account for increases in
population and regional land development growth which may take place in the future, regardless
of whether or not the proposed site is approved and developed. The opening date of the project
is expected to be sometime in Fall 2015 or possibly 2016, or approximately three (3) to four (4)
years from the date of the data collection of the site (Fall 2012). This timeframe includes
engineering, land development approvals, construction, fit out, and occupancy of the site, with
four (4) chosen to be conservative.

The Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission has been working with PennDOT recently
regarding a study it is conducting of the Lancaster Avenue corridor in Radnor Township.
DVRPC is aware of FTA's efforts for Villanova. DVRPC wrote to PennDOT in April 2013
informing them of a recommended background growth rate (for use both by FTA and DVRPC)
and a copy of that letter is provided in the Appendix. FTA used this rate (0.25% per annum),
compounded, for four (4) years to arrive at the initial no build peak hour traffic volumes.

One of the comments contained in Gilmore's review of Deliverable #1 was that "...PennDOT
requires a five (5) year projection beyond the anticipated full build-out of the proposed site..."
As mentioned in the prologue, this report was prepared for Township, not PennDOT submittal
purposes but since this comment was made in the review of Deliverable #1 by the township, a
decision was made to base the No Build and Build conditions on the `+5' scenario, or effectively
9 years of background growth). Thus, the No Build peak hour traffic volumes and levels of
service presented in Figures 7 through 10 are based on 9 years of growth.

The effect of background growth is generally minimal and did not result in the changing of any
intersection levels of service during either peak hour under either scenario.

ANALYSIS OF TRANSPORTATION IMPACT

The next scenario examined was the Build scenario. The Build scenario includes the traffic
associated with the site ­ including driveway modifications ­ distributed throughout the site
network in accordance with trip distribution models which were prepared for the project.

As the meeting minutes will reveal, the notion of trip generation for the site was discussed with
the township and PennDOT prior to the formulation of any deliverable. The reason focus was
place on this so early in the process is because the nature of the project ­ holding the student
population constant (due to no new instructional space being added under the project) combined
with constructing new student residences on campus ­ will lead to a reduction in peak hour
traffic. The logic behind this conclusion is simple ­ currently-commuting students will no
longer be driving through the study area and arriving at campus (during peak hours) ­ they will
already be on campus, so the project in essence will result in negative trip generation. Realizing
it would afford both the township and the University greater comfort levels if a different
approach was taken, it was agreed (by the University, the township, and PennDOT) that positive
trip generation would be derived and would be based on the proposed increase in parking spaces

                                                                                                     7
 associated with the project. While the logic of this runs counter to the intent of the project, this
 path was chosen to provide a conservative approach which is tied to the plan.

 FTA derived a methodology for the parking-space based trip generation which utilizes rates
 derived from existing campus activity. This subject was thoroughly detailed in Deliverable #2
 and was approved by both the township and PennDOT in subsequent review letters as found in
 the appendix. Rather than restate what has already been reviewed and approved in the body of
 this report, the entirety of the applicable section of Deliverable #2 (i.e., Trip Generation) is
 provided in the appendix on pages 33 through 57 and is identified in the table of contents as
 "Trip Generation Supporting Documents".

 The conclusion of that document is that the site is estimated to generate the following peak hour
 activity:
  
                              Table 18 ­ Project Trip Generation 
                                                    

                                     AM Peak Hour                              PM Peak Hour 
  Trip Generation  
                             IN          OUT       TOTAL               IN          OUT       TOTAL 
(113 Parking Spaces) 
                             26           3          29                22           26         48 

 It should be again emphasized that the project is expected to result in a reduction of peak hour
 traffic volumes since currently-commuting students will now reside in on-campus housing but
 positive trip generation volumes were added to the study area as requested by PennDOT and the
 Township. While the previous table provides a summary of the approximate number of trips to
 be `generated' by the site, the actual trip distribution of site traffic was complex since new traffic
 had to be introduced (added) and existing traffic had to be redistributed due to proposed changes
 to driveway locations and function as well as changes to the locations of both existing and added
 new parking spaces. As a result, three different models were created to describe traffic changes
 resulted from parking changes in the three discrete locations of the main campus. These
 locations include:

        Pike Lot / Pike Garage,
        Main Lot Surface Parking and the West Lancaster Avenue Consolidated Surface Lot, and
        HSB/SAC Garages.

 More information regarding the derivation of these models are provided in the Appendix in
 worksheet Figures A through T and also in spreadsheets provided immediately those worksheet
 figures. These worksheet figures include callouts which summarize the proposed changes in
 parking (and related trip generation) for each area. Essentially, trips are added or subtracted
 throughout the network proportionate to existing driveway volumes (and adjacent intersections
 which are sources or sinks of said volumes). The results of those worksheet figures are detailed
 in Figures 11 through 16. Combining these three figures yields the net sum of all changes in
 traffic for the project as a whole, and these are presented in Figures 17 (AM peak hour traffic
 volumes) and 18 (PM peak hour traffic volumes). It is these volumes which are in turn
 combined with Future No Build peak hour volumes to yield Future Build peak hour volumes
 (Figures 19 and 20) and associated levels of service (Figures 21 and 22).

 Lastly, it should be noted that at this time the project includes a proposal to relocate the existing
 university bookstore to within one of the buildings of the proposed new student resident halls.
 In addition, some student-centric retail space is envisioned in the new residence halls. The
 notion of whether or not these uses will generate any non-student traffic has been raised
                                                                                                          8
previously in meetings with the township, in emails, and in deliverable review letters. Since the
latter (deliverable review letters) is contained in the appendix of this report, and since a response
to the deliverable review letters is found immediately following those letters, this matter was
addressed in that response (and is also found in the appendix).

CONCLUSIONS AND OFFERED IMPROVEMENTS

Existing, Future No Build, and Future Build are the first three scenarios investigated in this
study. These three lead to the fourth and final scenario ­ the Future Build With Improvements
scenario. Regarding intersection levels of service, in an email dated 10 October 2012, the
township traffic engineer agreed to accept PennDOT's methodology for level of service
degradations. This email was specifically mentioned as a footnote (to the meeting minutes) of a
subsequent meeting with the township on 15 October 2012. The email is provided in the
appendix of this report following the mentioned meeting minutes.

As shown in those last two figures, some of the more notable delays in the study area occur
along the Route 320 (Spring Mill Road) corridor, but the impact of the project here is slight and
the increase in delay is so minimal and does not warrant any required improvements under the
protocols of PennDOT's methodology for level of service degradations (SOL 470-09-4). In fact,
this finding is repeated frequently throughout the study area during either peak hour as shown in
the summary table. No locations require mitigation, but even so several improvements are
offered.

At the intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Ithan Avenue, some of the delays are partly due to a
26-second all-red pedestrian-scramble phase during which time all traffic is stopped (all
approaches) so that pedestrians can cross in any direction through the intersection. While this
helps control speeding on Lancaster Avenue, it does also create some delay.

There are many different ways to address delays at intersections. One example is adding
capacity to various traffic movements (i.e., adding more turning lanes or more through lanes,
extending existing turning lanes, etc.) while another is to reduce traffic being sent to the
intersection. A third option is to reduce the amount of green time allocated to non-main street
phases (assuming the majority of delays are found on the main street).

The intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Ithan Avenue was remedied through small shifts in
green time and the resultant overall performance during both peak hours (LOS C) is detailed in
the LOS comparison tables. The shifts in green time were achieved by reducing the length of
the existing 26-second all-red ped-scramble to 19 seconds and reallocating the `saved' green
time to vehicular phases. This reduction in the length of the all-red ped-scramble phase is
achievable due to the significant reduction in pedestrian activity which is predicted to occur at
the intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Ithan Avenue. Pedestrian activity will shift to the
location of the signalized intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Villanova Parking Lot Drive
(aka Church Walk) for reasons outlined in pedestrian investigations performed earlier this year
and provided in the appendix in pages 436 through 446.

Note that, as mentioned in that document, the project includes construction of a new grade-
separated pedestrian crossing at Church Walk. This improvement is offered at the request of the
township but is not required to mitigate the impact of the site. Even without the grade-separated
pedestrian crossing, pedestrian crossings would have a greater affinity for the location of Church
Walk (vs Ithan Avenue) and a new all-red ped-scramble phase could have been provided at this
location to address the shift in pedestrian activity. Levels of service would not have been
                                                                                                        9
significantly affected at this location since the existing signalized operation is very simple (two
phases) due to the three-legged arrangement of the intersection so the introduction of a third
phase would not have been particularly significant, especially since the signalized intersections
flanking either side of this location (at Route 320 and at Ithan Avenue) feature four or more
phases today and thus have a metering effect at Church Walk. Regardless, the township
requested a grade-separated pedestrian crossing, and so the University is offering the
improvement.

In addition to the reduction in green time of the all-red ped phase, other benefits will be afforded
to this intersection as a result of the project. To accommodate the suggested inbound left-turn
movements at the existing unsignalized driveway for Pike Lot (to the east), a new left-turn lane
must be provided for that driveway. The most practical solution is to extend the existing
exclusive left-turn lane in the westbound direction along Lancaster Avenue at Ithan Avenue back
to the point of the driveway location. This approximately doubles the capacity of left-turn
storage for the intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Ithan Avenue and thereby considerably
reduces the likelihood of occasional westbound left-turning queues spilling back into the
adjacent through lane of the intersection, which in itself provides additional capacity to the
intersection during `peaks within the peak'. The extension of the left-turn lane is proposed to
continue beyond this length and become the new left-turn lane for the unsignalized intersection,
effectively nearly tripling the length of the original lane (at Ithan Avenue).

The opposing left-turn lane (eastbound) is also proposed to be extended to approximately double
its existing storage. This will more than offset the predicted added demand placed upon this
movement due to the redistribution of traffic resulting from the added parking which is proposed
at the HSB and SAC garages as identified in the site plans (193 total new spaces added).

Also in the eastbound direction, a new exclusive right-turn lane is shown. This is not required
for mitigation purposes but was requested by the township and the township police department
and is currently included in the list of offered improvements. One potential concern with
providing this lane is the increased pedestrian crossing distance such a lane will cause (on the
eastbound approach of the intersection). Further, the importance of this turning movement may
be reduced in the future considering an alternative route to and from the Pike Garage (beginning
at Church Walk and continuing along the south side of the LAH) will also reduce some of the
burden on the eastbound right-turn movement as compared with present day conditions.

LOS D operation at the intersections of County Line Road to Ithan Avenue can be remedied by
restricting side-street left turns. To benefit mobility during non-peak hours, these restrictions
could be time-based (i.e., weekday peak period restrictions) through new post-mounted signage
on the side street approaches. Note that the intersection of County Line Road and Ithan Avenue
(south) is the only intersection which requires mitigation per SOL 407-09-4 as it degrades from
a C to a D (during the PM peak hour) but the mentioned time-based left-turn restriction could be
provided during both AM and PM peak periods and at both the `north' and `south' intersections,
if so desired.

In addition to these improvements, the University is also offering to improve the intersection of
Lancaster Avenue and Villanova Parking Lot Drive (Church Walk) by installing a new
westbound left-turn lane and a new eastbound right-turn lane. While not required by the project
(in terms of mitigation measures), interest in new turning lanes was expressed by both the
township and PennDOT in earlier meetings and so they will be reflected on the land
development plans.

                                                                                                       10
In summary, Villanova is offering to provide the following traffic flow improvements:

   1) new EB left-turn and new WB right-turn lanes along Lancaster Avenue at Church Walk,
   2) new pedestrian overpass spanning Lancaster Avenue at Church Walk,
   3) new EB right-turn lane along Lancaster Avenue at Ithan Avenue,
   4) extensions of existing EB & WB left-turn lanes along Lancaster Avenue at Ithan Avenue,
   5) reduction of the existing ped scramble phase at the intersection of Lancaster Avenue and
      Ithan Avenue by approximately 30% (with reallocation of this green time to traffic flow),
   6) peak period side street left-turn restrictions at both intersections of County Line Road
      and Ithan Avenue, and
   7) elimination of existing unsignalized driveways along Lancaster Avenue and
      consolidation of existing parking lots with construction of a new connection to the
      existing signalized intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Church Walk.

With all these improvements in place, the impact of the proposed residence halls is mitigated:
all intersection levels of service are either C or better during both peak hours or do not degrade
in such a way as to violate the edicts of PennDOT SOL 407-09-4. In some cases, an intersection
will operate better than it does under existing conditions

Knowing also that no new peak hour traffic will in fact result from the project (as mentioned
previously) underscores how all of the preceding could merely be viewed as an exercise and
code-compliance matter, not necessarily suggested actions. Even so, Villanova has committed
to the offered improvements described, thereby benefiting the township, its residents, and the
university considerably. In that same spirit, several additional Township requests, none of
which are explicitly defined as required items in section 255-20.B(5)(d) of the township's
SALDO, are provided in the next section of this report.




                                                                                                     11
                      ADDITIONAL REQUESTED INFORMATION


PARKING

Current parking demands on campus never approach parking supply (i.e., capacity) and
additional parking spaces are generally not needed. This has been documented throughout the
entire campus under both `ordinary class' conditions and `special event' conditions including
home basketball games and copies of detailed campus-wide parking tabulations including
summaries of observed demand and available supply on more than a dozen different days are
included in the appendix of this report.

Parking was investigated in detail in Deliverable #2 and the subsequent Gilmore review letter
indicated concurrence with parking generation rates and findings with regard to parking demand,
`ordinary class' conditions and `special event' conditions, and other topics. The entire parking
discussion was presented as a way to quantify an association with between particular parking
spaces and anticipated users and thus the parking discussion also included particular focus on
West Campus since there are similarities between the proposed student resident halls and West
Campus. West Campus is a useful as a predictor of the proposed resident halls (hereinafter,
Lancaster Avenue Halls or LAH) associated parking demand since West Campus residents hold
special permits which can be identified both during traffic counts at the gated entrance to West
Campus and during walking surveys of parked vehicles on campus. One of the conclusions of
Deliverable #2 was that unconstrained parking demand rate (per eligible student) at West
Campus is 66.3% and using that rate (actually 67%) as a predictor of parking demand for LAH
yielded 777 spaces (1159*0.67) which would be for vehicles owned by the students. Of these
777 vehicles, 127 were placed in the surface parking just south of LAH and the remaining 650
were designated in the Pike Garage. It is clear that the large majority, if not the entirety, of
these vehicles will not be moving during weekday peak hours since residents of the LAH
will be walking to and from the main campus for class, not driving. The basis of part of the
trip redistribution models offered in Deliverable #2 was founded in this, and other, notions.
Gilmore's review letter did not dispute this logic. For reasons which are unclear, PennDOT's
review letter, however, commented that this logic was "highly speculative". Subsequent to
review of this review letter, an email was sent to PennDOT requesting clarification and offering
to treat all parking spaces as `moving' during the peak hours, despite the contradiction in logic
such concession affords. A response was received and an agreement was reached and the
previously-presented traffic models for the project (now shown in Figures 11 through 16)
incorporate the assumption that ALL parking spaces continue to be `peak hour moving' traffic.

Turning back to the township's review of Deliverable #2 with regard to parking, one item which
was requested was a survey of West Campus parking turnover. This was performed as
requested. The conclusion of the investigation may be summarized as follows:

       Counts were conducted at the only driveway which is used by student residents to gain
       access to / from West Campus. These counts were conducted during the midday peak
       period (10 AM to 12 PM as specifically requested by Gilmore in its review letter) and the
       study focused on cars displaying WC student resident parking stickers and/or hang tags;
       During the counts, a random sample of approximately 5% of the available parking spaces
       (30 out of 596 spaces) which were occupied by WC student resident parking sticker-
       and/or WC hang tag-emblazoned cars at the beginning of the count were monitored;
       A peak hour of 11:00 AM to 12:00 PM was identified from the count data;
                                                                                                    12
       During the peak hour, 30 entering vehicles and 23 exiting vehicles (53 total trips) were
       recorded at the driveway; and
       During the same hour, there was turnover at 2 of the 30 parking spaces which were
       monitored and the turnover activity at these spaces amounted to 2 arriving (entering)
       vehicles and 2 departing (exiting) vehicles (4 total trips).

One can view this data a few different ways. First, the trip activity at the gate house (53) can be
related to the total number of parking spaces (596). This suggests a `turnover' rate of 8.8% for
the entire West Campus, which is fairly low.

Next, the turnover activity of the random sample (30 surveyed spaces) can be examined. Of
these 30 spaces, 4 turnover actions (trips) were generated. This suggests a turnover rate of
13.3% of the sample. This correlates rather closely with the `turnover' rate established the entire
West Campus (8.8%) and serves to validate the random sample was reasonably representative of
the campus as a whole and once again suggests a `turnover' rate of 8.8% for the entire West
Campus, which is fairly low.

Details of the traffic counts (raw data) and the parking space survey are provided in the appendix
of this report on pages 451 and 452.

SPECIAL EVENT PARKING MANAGEMENT

Villanova currently has no specific parking management plan for events such as basketball
games, homecoming, graduation events, etc. Although the Radnor Police Department and
Villanova Public Safety are present to direct traffic and chaperone motorists (and pedestrians),
the decision of where to park on the campus largely falls on the shoulders of the individual
driver. FTA's observations of the campus during Homecoming in 2012 as well as basketball
games confirms this.

The township has requested an established Parking Management Plan (PMP) be created and put
in place. Accordingly, the suggested process to establish this plan is:

   1) as the land development process of the project unfolds, schedule meetings with the
      township and Gilmore to review a list of known events to establish which events should
      operate with a PMP in place,
   2) prepare an outline of a generic PMP which could apply to multiple events; review with
      Radnor PD and Villanova PS for feedback,
   3) prepare outlines of specific PMP's which would apply to certain known, particularly
      intense special events (such as Homecoming); review with Radnor PD and Villanova PS
      for feedback.
   4) investigate the use of modern technology to supplement the plan and aid motorists to the
      appropriate parking destination (through use of real time text messaging, portable
      changeable message displays along Lancaster Avenue, and possibly other ways).

Since the proposed ordinance is still being discussed and the project plans not yet submitted for
land development, it is premature to begin the PMP design process / scheduling the meetings
described, though Villanova has already begun to investigate the feasibility of some aspects of a
PMP for events such as home basketball games. One component of this tentative PMP is to
assign parking lots to season ticket holders on a rotating basis to ensure fairness to all ticket
holders while at the same time capitalizing on the parking supply available at all locations of the
                                                                                                      13
campus, including not only the Main and Pike lots, but also the HSB and SAC garages, the law
school garage, etc.

Villanova is also exploring retaining a parking and circulation planning specialist to assist in the
development of new Parking Management Plans.

ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

An investigation into the crash history of the study area was conducted as requested. PennDOT
supplied the latest homogenous report, crash resumes, and a crash summary for the most recent
five years of data along the Lancaster Avenue corridor covering the entire length of that roadway
as shown in the figures (i.e., from Spring Mill Road to County Line Road). The latest Cluster
List for Delaware County was also provided. None of this information is included in the
appendix per the edict of 75 Pa. C.S. §3754 which restricts disclosure and publication of crash
data however FTA will maintain all of the collected information in the job files should the
township traffic engineer wish to review it directly.

The study area featured 112 reportable accidents. Highlights of the data include:

       0 accidents involved fatalities
       6 accidents involved pedestrians
       8 accidents involved injuries classified as moderate or major
       24 accidents involved injuries classified minor
       13 accidents involved environmental conditions such as ice- or snow-covered roadways

The segment in question covers approximately 1.23 miles and is classified as an urban, NFAC
(non full-access control) roadway. The calculated crash rate (C) of the study corridor is 2.40
crashes per million vehicle miles whereas the latest Department-provided homogenous report
gives a rate of 2.25 crashes per million vehicle miles for similar roadways which are undivided,
are 41-99 feet wide, and which feature 10-99k ADT. The difference in crash rates (between the
study area and similar roadways per the homogenous report) is not significant. It is also
appropriate to eliminate certain crashes given the involvement of conditions unrelated to the
design of the roadway including ­ but not limited to ­ environmental factors such as snow, ice,
etc. Eliminating the 13 accidents (per the last bullet point above) which involve these
conditions, for example, produces a redacted crash rate (C') of 2.12 crashes per million vehicle
miles, which is lower than the homogenous report rate for similar roadways.

Whether using C or C', the crash history of the corridor is consistent with the crash history of
other roadways having similar attributes. The absence of any crash involving a fatality and the
relatively low number of accidents involving major injuries, moderate injuries, and pedestrians
also supports this conclusion.




                                                                                                       14
     62   To Villanova Conference Center (approximately 1 mile)                                                                                              County Line Road


                                                                                                                                             52
                                                                                                                                                                                                              57
                                                                                                                     23                                                                         16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HSB Garage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1 call box
                                                                                                                                                                                28                                                  each                   11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    level
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      27                                  42
                            64                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ithan
43                                    44                                                                   Spring Mill Garage
                                             40       34                                                          9 call boxes
                                                                                                                                                        tion                                                                                           Avenue
                                                                                                                                                   a Sta                                                                                               Entrance
                                                                                                                                                nov                                                                     58                                                             63
                                                                  47                                 Pedestrian
                                                                                                                                         | Villa                                                                                                                                                          21
                                                                                                        Tunnel                       i l
                                                                                                                                l Ra                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                          ona
                                                                                                                                                  45
                                                                                                                    i                                                                                                                                                      5
            4          46
                                                                                                            A   Reg                                                                                                                                             30
                                                                                                         EPT
                                 29                                                                                                                                     33                                                   53
                                            22       18                                              S                                                                                      9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To Philadelphia
                                                                                                                                                                 10                                     61                                                                                                     12 miles
                                                                                                                                        17
                                                                                                                     36

                                                                                                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pike Lot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Parking




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ithan Avenue
                                                                                                                                                        1              2

                                                                                                     31
                                                                                                                                                            49               University
                                                                                                     8                                                                       Admission
                                                                                                           65                                                     50                                   Main  Lot
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Parking
                                                                                                                                             51
                                                            Spring Mill
                                                                 Road

                                                                          Spring Mill Road/RT.320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       48
                                                              Entrance
                                                                                                                          60




                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            32
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Aldwyn




                                                                                                                                                                        .3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          55
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pedestrian




                                                                                                                                                                      RT
                                                                                                    20
                                                                                                                                                                             Visitor             Bridge




                                                                                                                                                                  e/
                                                                                                                                    C. Corner




                                                                                                                                                                nu
                                                                                                                                                                             Parking                    SEPTA Commuter




                                                                                                                                                              ve
                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Rail Station                                                                         6




                                                                                                                                                            rA
                                                                                                                                                        te
                                                                                                                                                                       39




                                                                                                                                                      as
                                                                                                                                                    nc
                                                                                                                                        54




                                                                                                                                                  La
                                                                                                    12                                                      26                                                                                                                                   35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13
                                                                                                                38
                                                                                                                      41                           24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25
                                                                                                                37

                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                 76
                                                                                                             .4




                                                                                                                               56
                                                                                                           RT
                                                                                                         US
                                                                                                    To




                                                                                                                     59

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15
1. ALUMNI HALL             (1849)                            15. D
                                                                  RISCOLL HALL ·                 (2008)                  30. J
                                                                                                                              AKE NEVIN FIELD HOUSE · (1932)                         47. S
                                                                                                                                                                                          T. MARY HALL ·               (1964)                       OLENTINE HALL · (1929)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               60. T
   Residence hall, gymnasium for intramural athletics           College of Nursing, Office of the Dean,                     Athletic Department offices, Director of Athletics,         Human Resources, Procurement, Payroll, Financial          Office of the University President; Offices
                                                                administrative offices, faculty offices, Center             basketball court, other athletic facilities                 Affairs, Budget, OPIR: Office of Planning and             of the Vice President for Academic Affairs,
2. AUSTIN HALL ·              (1924)                            for Nursing Research, Center for Global and Public                                                                      Institutional Research, Graduate Programs in              Vice President for Administration and Finance,
   Office of University Admission, residence hall               Health, auditorium, lecture halls, seminar rooms,        31. J
                                                                                                                              OHN BARRY HALL · (1947)                                   Human Resource Development, administrative                Vice President for University Communication,
                                                                classrooms, Clinical Simulation Laboratories,               Naval R.O.T.C. headquarters, classrooms                     offices, residence hall, dining facility, University      Vice President and General Counsel; College
3. B
    ARTLEY HALL ·                 (1958)                        chapel, reading room, dining facility                                                                                   Senate office, chapel, pool, gymnasium, Music             of Engineering offices; Registrar's Office; other
   Villanova School of Business, Office of the Dean,                                                                     32. K
                                                                                                                              ATHARINE HALL ·                  (1986)                   Activities, Art Conservatory, student mail                administrative offices; classrooms; Department
   administrative offices, faculty offices, Applied          16. F
                                                                  ACILITIES MANAGEMENT                                      Residence hall                                              services, ATM                                             of Psychology (labs, offices); CIT: Center for
   Finance Laboratory, classrooms, dining facilities,           BUILDING · (1965)                                                                                                                                                                 Instructional Technologies; video/
   Graduate Business Programs, Print Center, ATM                Facilities Management main office, staff, shops          33. K
                                                                                                                              ENNEDY HALL · (1968)                                        T. MONICA HALL ·
                                                                                                                                                                                     48. S                               (1986)                   teleconference facility
                                                                                                                            University Shop, Office of Financial Assistance,            Residence hall
    URNS HALL · (1978)
4. B                                                              ALVEY MEMORIAL LIBRARY
                                                             17. F                                                          Office of Residence Life, Bursar's Office, Mail                                                                         ASEY HALL · (1931)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               61. V
   Augustinian residence                                         ·     (1949)                                               Services, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences           49. S
                                                                                                                                                                                          T. RITA HALL        (1913)                              VITAL: Villanova Institute for Teaching and
                                                                Library, University Communication: Creative                 Office of Graduate Studies, Office of the Dean              Residence hall, Campus Ministry offices                   Learning, Office of Part-time Studies, Summer
5. B
    UTLER ANNEX (1968)                                          Services, Learning Support Services (moving from Vasey      of Graduate Studies                                                                                                   Sessions Program, Theatre Department, theatre,
   Athletic facility                                            Hall in January 2012), Writing Center, Mathematics                                                                   50. S
                                                                                                                                                                                          T. THOMAS OF VILLANOVA                                  offices, classrooms, TechZone Computer Support
                                                                Center, Augustinian Institute, Augustinian Historical    34. K
                                                                                                                              LEKOTKA HALL ·                  (1994)                    CHURCH · (1887)                                           Center, Learning Support Services (moving to
    AUGHLIN HALL ·
6. C                                (1989)                      Institute, dining facility                                  Residence hall                                              Parish church for local community and Villanova           Falvey Library in January 2012)
   Residence hall                                                                                                                                                                       University students
                                                                  ARLEY HALL · (2000)
                                                             18. F                                                            CGUIRE HALL ·
                                                                                                                         35. M                             (1989)                                                                                   ILLANOVA CONFERENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               62. V
    EER: CENTER FOR
7. C                                                            Residence hall, fitness center                              Residence hall                                                T. THOMAS OF VILLANOVA
                                                                                                                                                                                     51. S                                                        CENTER · (1998)
   ENGINEERING EDUCATION                                                                                                                                                                MONASTERY · (1901 & 1934)                                 Hotel accommodations, meeting space,
                                                             19. F
                                                                  ARRELL HALL ·              (1960)                           ENDEL SCIENCE CENTER ·
                                                                                                                         36. M                                              (1961)      Augustinian residence and care center, Augustinian        guest dining facility, special events catering, Office
   AND RESEARCH · (1997)                                                                                                    Classrooms, lecture halls, laboratories,
   College of Engineering, Office of the Dean,                  Office of Public Safety, parking office                                                                                 Heritage Room, Augustinian Way of Life Center             of Executive Programs, Executive M.B.A. Program,
                                                                                                                            administrative offices, student public computing                                                                      Executive Education
   administrative offices, laboratories, conference
   rooms, auditorium, dining facility                        20. F
                                                                  EDIGAN HALL ·              (1930)                         labs, observatory, greenhouse                            52. S
                                                                                                                                                                                          CHOOL OF LAW · (2009)
                                                                Residence hall
                                                                                                                         37. M
                                                                                                                              IDDLETON HALL (1943)                                      Office of the Dean, administrative offices,            63. V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ILLANOVA STADIUM · (1927)
8. C
    HEMICAL ENGINEERING                                      21. G
                                                                  ALBERRY HALL (1940)                                       International Studies, Office of Research and
                                                                                                                                                                                        classrooms, lounges, Law Library, Moot Court,
                                                                                                                                                                                        dining facility, ATM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Stadium (playing field for varsity football,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  lacrosse, etc.), track, athletic weight room,
   BUILDING (1947)                                              University Graphic Services, Conference Services            Sponsored Projects                                                                                                    Grounds Department
   Chemical Engineering offices,classrooms,
                                                                                                                         38. M
                                                                                                                              ILITARY SCIENCES BUILDING                              53. S
                                                                                                                                                                                          HEEHAN HALL ·               (1957)
   laboratories                                                   ALLEN HALL ·
                                                             22. G                          (2000)
                                                                                                                            · (1949)                                                    Residence hall                                              ELSH HALL ·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               64. W                         (1994)
                                                                Residence hall                                                                                                                                                                    Residence hall
9. C
    ONNELLY CENTER · (1980)                                                                                                 Army R.O.T.C. headquarters, classrooms
                                                                                                                                                                                     54. S
                                                                                                                                                                                          IMPSON HALL ·              (1948)
   Auxiliary Services, Presidents' Lounge,                        AREY HALL · (1958)
                                                             23. G                                                       39. M
                                                                                                                              ORIARTY HALL                 (1963)                       Residence hall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HITE HALL · (1974)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               65. W
   International Student Advisor, Office of Human               Alumni Center, University Advancement:                                                                                                                                            Chemical Engineering offices, classrooms,
   Services (students with disabilities), student lounges,      Alumni Relations and Development, Department                Residence hall                                                                                                        laboratories
   cinema, meeting rooms, information desk, cyber               of Communication, Career Services office,                                                                            55. S
                                                                                                                                                                                          TANFORD HALL ·                 (1971)
   lounge, dining facilities, convenience/video store,          Honors Program, IGIS: Institute for Global               40. M
                                                                                                                              OULDEN HALL ·                 (1994)                      Residence hall, fitness center, Office of
   Art Gallery, ATM                                             Interdisciplinary Studies, Custodial Services,              Residence hall                                              Continuing Studies
                                                                classrooms
10. C
     ORR HALL ·            (1914)                                                                                             'DWYER HALL
                                                                                                                         41. O                           (1941)                           TONE HALL (1957)
                                                                                                                                                                                     56. S                                                        ·   Handicap Accessible Parking Areas
   Office for Mission and Ministry,                          24. G
                                                                  ERAGHTY HALL (1958)                                       Residence hall                                              Office of Environmental Health and Safety
   Office of the Vice President for Mission and                 Office of the Dean of Enrollment Management,                                                                                                                                          Call Box indicator: Phones
   Ministry, Center for Faith and Learning, Center              University Communication: Media Relations,               42. P
                                                                                                                              AVILION · (1985)                                       57. S
                                                                                                                                                                                          TRUCTURAL ENGINEERING
   for Peace and Justice Education, residence hall,                                                                         Basketball stadium, indoor sports complex, athletic                                                                       located at buildings with
                                                                NHI: National Hispanic Institute                                                                                        TEACHING AND RESEARCH                                         direct-dial to Public Safety are
   Greek Affairs, chapel                                                                                                    offices, locker rooms, swimming pool, 200-meter
                                                             25. G
                                                                  OOD COUNSEL HALL                    (1969)                indoor track, ATM                                           LABORATORY · (2005)                                           indicated on key; free-standing
11. D
     AVIS CENTER · (2007)                                       Residence hall                                                                                                          Structural member and load testing facility,                  Call Boxes to Public Safety are
   Men's and women's basketball offices, men's and                                                                       43. P
                                                                                                                              ICOTTE HALL AT DUNDALE ·                  (1974)          environmental room, wet room, material                        indicated on map
   women's basketball practice facilities, Intramural/       26. G
                                                                  RIFFIN HALL (1964)                                        Office of University Advancement, Office of the
                                                                                                                            Vice President for University Advancement
                                                                                                                                                                                        testing room 
   Recreation Department, fitness center                        University Communication: Constituent
                                                                Publications, Marketing and University                                                                               58. S
                                                                                                                                                                                          ULLIVAN HALL ·               (1953)
12. D
     ELUREY HALL               (1943)                           Advancement­Communication                                44. R
                                                                                                                              UDOLPH HALL ·                 (1994)                      Residence hall
   Residence hall                                                                                                           Residence hall
                                                             27. H
                                                                  EALTH SERVICES BUILDING · (2002)                                                                                   59. T
                                                                                                                                                                                          ECHNOLOGY SERVICES BUILDING
13. D
     ONAHUE HALL · (1985)                                       Counseling Center, Center for Health and                      T. AUGUSTINE CENTER FOR
                                                                                                                         45. S                                                          ·     (1993)
   Dining facilities, convenience store, ATM                    Wellness Education, Health Center, VEMS:                    THE LIBERAL ARTS ·                    (1992)                General computing and technology information,
                                                                Villanova Emergency Medical Service                                                                                     administrative offices for UNIT: University
                                                                                                                            College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Office of
14. D
     OUGHERTY HALL · (1955)                                                                                                 the Dean, Catholic Relief Services, The Theology
                                                                                                                                                                                        Information Technologies, Office of the Vice
   Office of the Vice President for Student Life,            28. HEATING PLANT (1950)                                       Institute, administrative offices, faculty offices,
                                                                                                                                                                                        President for Technology and Chief Information
                                                                                                                                                                                        Officer, CIT: Center for Instructional
   Center for Multicultural Affairs, Office of the                                                                          seminar rooms, dining facility
   Dean of Students, Offices of Dining Services,             29. J
                                                                  ACKSON HALL · (2000)                                                                                                  Technologies main office, Network and
                                                                                                                                                                                        Communications, University Information
   Student Government office, Wildcard office,
   dining facilities, student organization offices,
                                                                Residence hall                                           46. S
                                                                                                                              T. CLARE HALL ·               (2000)                      Systems, faculty/staff training facility
                                                                                                                            Residence hall
   lounges, barber shop, bank, ATM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16
17
18
19
20
21
                                           TABLE 1



                     LEVEL OF SERVICE AND EXPECTED DELAY
                       FOR UNSIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS*




                                                           CONTROL DELAY
    LEVEL OF SERVICE                                     PER VEHICLE (SECONDS)

            a                                                 0 to 10.0


            b                                                 10.1 to 15.0


            c                                                 15.1 to 25.0


            d                                                 25.1 to 35.0


            e                                                 35.1 to 50.0


            f                                                 Over 50.0




*   Transportation Research Board's Highway Capacity Manual


                                                                                 22
                                         TABLE 2

                    LEVEL OF SERVICE AND EXPECTED DELAY
                       FOR SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS*


                                                              CONTROL DELAY
LEVEL OF                                                       PER VEHICLE
SERVICE          DESCRIPTION                                   (IN SECONDS)

    A            Very short delay, good progression;             < 10.0
                 most vehicles do not stop at
                 intersection.

    B            Generally good signal progression               10.1 to 20.0
                 and/or short cycle length; more
                 vehicles stop at intersection than
                 Level of Service A.

    C            Fair progression and/or longer cycle            20.1 to 35.0
                 length; significant number of
                 vehicles stop at intersection.

    D            Congestion becomes noticeable;                  35.1 to 55.0
                 individual cycle failures; longer
                 delays from unfavorable progression,
                 long cycle length, or high volume/
                 capacity ratios; most vehicles stop
                 at intersection.

    E            Usually considered limit of acceptable          55.1 to 80.0
                 delay indication of poor progression,
                 long cycle length, or high volume/
                 capacity ratio; frequent individual
                 cycle failures.

    F            Could be considered excessive delay             > 80.0
                 in some areas, frequently an indication
                 of saturation (i.e., arrival flow
                 exceeds capacity), or very long cycle
                 lengths with minimal side street "green"
                 time. Capacity is not necessarily
                 exceeded under this level of service.



*   Transportation Research Board's Highway Capacity Manual


                                                                                23
                 LEVEL OF SERVICE COMPARISON TABLE -- SIGNALIZED
                                 INTERSECTIONS

                               1. Lancaster Avenue & Spring Mill Road/Kenilworth Road/Aldwyn Lane
 Direction          Movement                         AM Peak Hour                                                    PM Peak Hour
                                                                                 Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
      Lancaster Avenue             Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                       Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                                 Improvements                                                   Improvements
                          L          F              F               F                                F              F               F
Eastbound                 TT         D              D               D                                D              D               D
                          R          B              B               B                                B              B               B
                          L          E              E               E                                F              F               F
Westbound
                        TTR          F              F               F                                D              D               D
       Spring Mill Road




                                                                                                                                                            d 
                                                                                             d 
                          L          F              F               F                                F              F               F




                                                                                                                                                          re
                                                                                           re
Northbound




                                                                                                                                                        ui
                                                                                        ui
                                     D              D               D                                D              D               D




                                                                                                                                                      eq
                                                                                      eq
                        TR




                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                    R
                                     E              E               E                                D              D               D




                                                                                                                                                 ne
                                                                                 ne
                          L
Southbound




                                                                                                                                               No
                                                                               No
                        TR           F              F               F                                F              F               F
         Aldwyn Lane

Northbound              LTR           E             E                E                                E             E                E
       Kenilworth Road

Southbound              LTR          E             E               E                                 E             E               E
                  OVERALL:         F 126         F 132           F 133                             F 131         F 137           F 138

                                                  2. Lancaster Avenue & Church Walk
 Direction          Movement                         AM Peak Hour                                                    PM Peak Hour
                                                                                 Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
      Lancaster Avenue             Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                       Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                                 Improvements                                                   Improvements
Eastbound               TTR          A              A                A                               A              A                A




                                                                                                                                                            d 
                                                                                             d 




Westbound               LTT          A              A                A                               A              A                A




                                                                                                                                                          re
                                                                                           re




                                                                                                                                                        ui
                                                                                        ui




                                                                                                                                                      eq
                                                                                      eq




         Church Walk




                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                    R




                                                                                                                                                 ne
                                                                                 ne




Northbound              LR           C              C               C                                C              C               C




                                                                                                                                               No
                                                                               No




                  OVERALL:          A 1            A 1             A 1                              A 7            A 7             A 5

                                                 3. Lancaster Avenue & Ithan Avenues
 Direction          Movement                         AM Peak Hour                                                    PM Peak Hour
                                                                                 Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
      Lancaster Avenue             Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                       Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                                 Improvements                                                   Improvements
                          L          A              B                B                               A              A                B
Eastbound
                        TTR          B              B                B                               C              C                C
                          L          B              B                B                               B              B                B
Westbound
                        TTR          B              B                B                               B              B                B
                                                                                             d 




                                                                                                                                                            d 
                                                                                           re




                                                                                                                                                          re


         Ithan Avenue
                                                                                        ui




                                                                                                                                                        ui
                                                                                      eq




                                                                                                                                                      eq




                          L          F              F               F                                F              F               F
                                                                                    R




                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                 ne




                                                                                                                                                 ne




Northbound
                        TR           E              E               E                                D              E               D
                                                                               No




                                                                                                                                               No




                          L          D              D               D                                E              E               D
Southbound
                        TR           E              E               E                                F              F               E
                  OVERALL:         C 30           C 31            C 32                             C 34           D 36            C 32




                                                                                                                                                         24
                 LEVEL OF SERVICE COMPARISON TABLE -- SIGNALIZED
                                 INTERSECTIONS
                                              4. Lancaster Avenue & Lowrys Lane
 Direction         Movement                      AM Peak Hour                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                                            Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
      Lancaster Avenue         Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                      Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                            Improvements                                                   Improvements
Eastbound               LTTR     B              B                B                              C              C                C
Westbound               LTTR     B              C                C                              B              B                B




                                                                                        d 




                                                                                                                                                       d 
                                                                                      re




                                                                                                                                                     re
                                                                                    ui




                                                                                                                                                   ui
         Lowrys Lane




                                                                                  eq




                                                                                                                                                 eq
                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                               R
Northbound              LTR     C              C               C                               B              B               B




                                                                             ne




                                                                                                                                            ne
                                B              B               B                               C              C               C




                                                                           No




                                                                                                                                          No
Southbound              LTR
        OVERALL:               B 19           B 20            B 20                            C 23           C 23            C 24

                                               5. Conestoga Road & Sproul Road
 Direction         Movement                      AM Peak Hour                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                                            Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
       Conestoga Road          Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                      Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                            Improvements                                                   Improvements
                         L        E             E                E                              C              C               C
Eastbound
                        TR        E             F                F                              D              D               D
                         L        F             F                F                              D              D               D
Westbound




                                                                                                                                                       d 
                                                                                        d 
                        TR        F             F                F                              E              E               E




                                                                                                                                                     re
                                                                                      re




                                                                                                                                                   ui
                                                                                    ui




                                                                                                                                                 eq
                                                                                  eq
         Sproul Road




                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                            ne
                                                                             ne

                         L      D              D               D                               C              C               C




                                                                                                                                          No
                                                                           No


Northbound
                        TR       C              C               C                              B              B                B
Southbound              LTR      F              F               F                              F               F               F
        OVERALL:               F 82           F 88            F 89                            D 55           E 59            E 60

                                               6. Conestoga Road & Ithan Avenue
 Direction         Movement                      AM Peak Hour                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                                            Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
       Conestoga Road          Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                      Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                            Improvements                                                   Improvements
Eastbound               LTR      F              F                F                              C              C                C
Westbound               LTR      B              B                B                              B              B                B
                                                                                        d 




                                                                                                                                                       d 
                                                                                      re




                                                                                                                                                     re
                                                                                    ui




                                                                                                                                                   ui
         Ithan Avenue                                             
                                                                                  eq




                                                                                                                                                 eq
                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                               R
Northbound              LTR     C              C               C                               B              B               B
                                                                             ne




                                                                                                                                            ne
                                C              C               C                               C              C               C
                                                                           No




                                                                                                                                          No
Southbound              LTR
        OVERALL:               D 50           E 58            E 59                            C 20           C 21            C 22




                                                                                                                                                    25
                 LEVEL OF SERVICE COMPARISON TABLE -- SIGNALIZED
                                 INTERSECTIONS

                                             7. Conestoga Road & Garrett Avenue
 Direction          Movement                     AM Peak Hour                                                    PM Peak Hour
                                                                             Future Build w/                                                 Future Build w/
       Conestoga Road          Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                       Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                             Improvements                                                    Improvements
Eastbound             LTR        A              A                A                               A              A                A
Westbound             LTR        A              A                A                               A              A                A




                                                                                                                                                         d 
                                                                                         d 




                                                                                                                                                       re
                                                                                       re




                                                                                                                                                    ui
                                                                                    ui
        Garrett Avenue




                                                                                                                                                  eq
                                                                                  eq




                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                R
Northbound            LTR        C              C               C                                C              C               C




                                                                                                                                             ne
                                                                             ne




                                                                                                                                           No
                                                                           No
Southbound            LTR        C              C               C                                C              C               C
        OVERALL:                A 8            A 8             A 8                              A 6            A 6             A 6

                                               8. County Line & Spring Mill Roads
 Direction          Movement                     AM Peak Hour                                                    PM Peak Hour
                                                                             Future Build w/                                                 Future Build w/
      County Line Road         Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                       Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                             Improvements                                                    Improvements
Eastbound             LTR        C              C               C                                C              C                C
Westbound             LTR        C              D               D                                B              B                B




                                                                                                                                                         d 
                                                                                         d 




                                                                                                                                                       re
                                                                                       re




                                                                                                                                                    ui
                                                                                    ui
       Spring Mill Road




                                                                                                                                                  eq
                                                                                  eq




                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                R
Northbound            LTR       C              C               C                                E              E               E




                                                                                                                                             ne
                                                                             ne




                                                                                                                                           No
                                                                           No
Southbound            LTR       C              C               C                                D              E               E
        OVERALL:               C 26           C 27            C 29                             D 38           D 45            D 49




                                                                                                                                                      26
               LEVEL OF SERVICE COMPARISON TABLE -- UNSIGNALIZED
                                 INTERSECTIONS
                                             9. Lancaster Avenue & Garrett Avenue
 Direction          Movement                     AM Peak Hour                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                                            Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
      Lancaster Avenue         Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                      Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                            Improvements                                                   Improvements
Westbound                 L      A              A               A                               A              A               A




                                                                                        d 




                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                     ire




                                                                                                                                                     ire
       Garrett Avenue




                                                                                    u




                                                                                                                                                   u
                                                                                  eq




                                                                                                                                                 eq
                                 B              B               B                               C              C               C




                                                                                 R




                                                                                                                                                R
Northbound                LR




                                                                             ne




                                                                                                                                            ne
                                                                           No




                                                                                                                                          No
       OVERALL:                 A 1            A 1             A 1                             A 1            A 1             A 1

                                            10. Conestoga Road & Spring Mill Road
 Direction          Movement                     AM Peak Hour                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                                            Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
      Conestoga Road           Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                      Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                            Improvements                                                   Improvements
Eastbound                 L      A              A               A                               A              A               A




                                                                                        d 




                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                     ire




                                                                                                                                                     ire
       Spring Mill Road




                                                                                    u




                                                                                                                                                   u
                                                                                  eq




                                                                                                                                                 eq
                                 D              E               E                               E              E               E



                                                                                 R




                                                                                                                                                R
Southbound                LR




                                                                             ne




                                                                                                                                            ne
                                                                           No




                                                                                                                                          No
       OVERALL:                 A 1            A 1             A 1                             A 1            A 2             A 2

                                              11. Conestoga Road & Lowrys Lane
 Direction          Movement                     AM Peak Hour                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                                            Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
      Conestoga Road           Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                      Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                            Improvements                                                   Improvements
Eastbound                 L      A              A               A                               A              A               A
Westbound                 L      A              A               A                               A              A               A
                                                                                        d 




                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                     ire




                                                                                                                                                     ire
         Lowrys Lane
                                                                                    u




                                                                                                                                                   u
                                                                                  eq




                                                                                                                                                 eq
                                                                                 R




                                                                                                                                                R
Northbound              LTR      F              F               F                               E              F               F
                                                                             ne




                                                                                                                                            ne
                                                                           No




                                                                                                                                          No
Southbound              LTR      C              C               C                               D              D               D
       OVERALL:                 A 5            A 5             A 5                             A 6            A 6             A 6

                                          12. County Line Road & Ithan Avenue North
 Direction          Movement                     AM Peak Hour                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                                            Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
      County Line Road         Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                      Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                            Improvements                                                   Improvements
Eastbound                 LR     D              D               D                               D              D               D
                                                                                        d 




                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                     ire




                                                                                                                                                     ire
        Ithan Avenue
                                                                                    u




                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                  eq




                                 D              D               D                               D              D               D                eq
                                                                                 R




                                                                                                                                               R
Southbound                TR
                                                                             ne




                                                                                                                                            ne
                                                                           No




                                                                                                                                          No


       OVERALL:                  D              D               D                               D              D               D

                                          13. County Line Road & Ithan Avenue South
 Direction          Movement                     AM Peak Hour                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                                            Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
      County Line Road         Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                      Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                            Improvements                                                   Improvements
Westbound                 LR     C              C                C                              C              C               D                 B
                                                                                        d 
                                                                                     ire




        Ithan Avenue
                                                                                    u
                                                                                  eq




                                 C              C                C                              C              C               D                 B
                                                                                 R




Northbound                TR
                                                                             ne
                                                                           No




       OVERALL:                  C              C                C                              C              C               D                 B




                                                                                                                                                     27
               LEVEL OF SERVICE COMPARISON TABLE -- UNSIGNALIZED
                                 INTERSECTIONS
                                             14. County Line Road & Lowrys Lane
 Direction         Movement                     AM Peak Hour                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                                           Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
      County Line Road        Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                      Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                           Improvements                                                   Improvements
Westbound                L      A              A               A                               A              A               A




                                                                                       d 




                                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                                    ire




                                                                                                                                                   ire
         Lowrys Lane




                                                                                   u




                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                 eq




                                                                                                                                                eq
                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                               R
Northbound              LR      B              B               B                               B              B               B




                                                                            ne




                                                                                                                                           ne
                                                                          No




                                                                                                                                         No
       OVERALL:                A 5            A 5             A 5                             A 2            A 2             A 2

                                             15. County Line Road & Airdale Road
 Direction         Movement                     AM Peak Hour                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                                           Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
      County Line Road        Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                      Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                           Improvements                                                   Improvements
Eastbound               LR      C              C                C                              B              B                B




                                                                                       d 




                                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                                    ire




                                                                                                                                                   ire
         Airdale Road




                                                                                   u




                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                 eq




                                                                                                                                                eq
                                A              A               A                               A              A               A



                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                               R
Northbound               L




                                                                            ne




                                                                                                                                           ne
                                                                          No




                                                                                                                                         No
       OVERALL:                A 5            A 5             A 5                             A 4            A 4             A 4

                                            16. County Line Road & Roberts Road
 Direction         Movement                     AM Peak Hour                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                                           Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
      County Line Road        Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                      Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                           Improvements                                                   Improvements
Eastbound                L      A              A               A                               A              A               A
Westbound                L      A              A               A                               A              A               A
                                                                                       d 




                                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                                    ire




                                                                                                                                                   ire
        Roberts Road
                                                                                   u




                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                 eq




                                                                                                                                                eq
                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                               R
Northbound              LTR     F              F               F                               F              F               F
                                                                            ne




                                                                                                                                           ne
                                                                          No




                                                                                                                                         No
Southbound              LTR     F              F               F                               E              E               E
       OVERALL:               E 44           F 52            F 52                             A 5            A 6             A 6

                                                17. Ithan Avenue & Aldwyn Lane
 Direction         Movement                     AM Peak Hour                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                                           Future Build w/                                                Future Build w/
         Aldwyn Lane          Existing   Future No Build   Future Build                      Existing   Future No Build   Future Build
                                                                           Improvements                                                   Improvements
Eastbound               LTR     B              B                B                              B              B                B
Westbound               LTR     B              B                C                              B              B                B
                                                                                       d 




                                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                                    ire




                                                                                                                                                   ire
        Ithan Avenue
                                                                                   u




                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                 eq




                                                                                                                                                eq
                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                               R

Northbound               L      A              A               A                               A              A               A
                                                                            ne




                                                                                                                                           ne
                                                                          No




                                                                                                                                         No



Southbound               L      A              A               A                               A              A               A
       OVERALL:                A 3            A 3             A 3                             A 3            A 3             A 3




                                                                                                                                                   28
29
                          F. T a v a n i a n d A s s o c i a t e s , I n c .
                          Traffic Engineering and Planning




                                                                                                                            LI
                                                                                                                            O
     Growth Spreadsheet Intersection Identification Key




                                                                                                                             RD
                                                                                                                           C NE
                                                                                                                               UN
                                                                                                                                 TY
     Villanova University Lancaster Avenue Residence Halls                                                                                                      RT
     Radnor Township, Delaware County, Pennsylvania                                                                                                           320 /
                                                                                                                                                                ING
                                                                                                                                                          SPR RD
                                                                                                                                                          M I L L


                                                                                                                                      5                                                               12




                                                                                                RD
                                               RT




                                                                                        KENILWORTH
                                               30                                                                                                                                                          10     11
                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                                                  ITHA
                                                                                                                                                          4          AVE




                                                                                  15                                                                  3                                               9
                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                     ALDW
                                                                                                         YN LN


                                                          RD




                                                                                   LN
                                                       LL
                                                     MI




                                                                                   ED
                                                NG
                                              RI




                                                                                 OD
                                            SP




                                                                               WO
                                                                                                                       1                                                        8
                     13                                                                                                                                               7
     CONESTOGA
     RD
                                                                                                                                                  6
                          14                                                                                                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                           AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                       IRED RD




                 L
                                                                                                                                                                                                      A




               U
                                                                                                                                                                                                 20




             R
           3 T
          S 20
          D O
         R PR /
                                                                 N
                                                                     16
                                                            T HA
                                                           I V  E                                                                                                          19
                                                             A
                                                                                                                  17
                                                                                                                                              18
                                                                                                                                              T




                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                            ET




                                                                                                            RY
                                                                                                                                        E  R
                                                                                                                                       G




                                                                                                         L
                                                                                                                                      AV AR




                                                                                                        LNOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                    CON                           30 T
                                                                                                                                                                                       EST
                                                                                                                                                                                          OGA
                                                                                                                                                                                              RD             21




30
                                                                                                                                                                                            TS
                                                                                                                                                                                         BER
                                                                                                                                                                                      ROD
                                                                                                                                                                                       R
AM    INPUT -->   0.0025               0.0025              0.0025   PM           0.0025               0.0025               0.0025
                       4                    4                   4                     4                    4                    4
            59        60         135      136         96       97           13       13         214      216         116      117
             0         0         542      547         15       15            0        0         541      546          12       12
            16        16         146      147         20       20            4        4         103      104          16       16
                                                20                                                             20
            13        13          73       74        282      285           21       21          81       82         338      341
           189       191         196      198        216      218          267      270         287      290         211      213
            16        16          55       56        199      201           51       52          50       51         166      168
 1                         13                                        1                    13
            12        12          56       57                               37       37          46       46
             1         1         589      595         37      37             3        3         514      519          59        60
             7         7          35       35        464     469             8        8          27       27         641       647
             9         9          27       27          8       8             5        5          27       27          11        11
           351       355         262      265          6       6           130      131         182      184          11        11
             9         9         209      211         23      23            34       34         103      104          25        25
                                                       2       2                                                       9         9
                                                21                                                             21
           35        35          625     631          25      25            91      92          646     652           28        28
          780       788            2       2         607     613           937     946           10      10          501       506
           88        89            8       8          14      14            80      81            9       9            4         4
                           14                                                             14
           47        47            4       4           8       8            73      74           17      17            1         1
          214       216            3       3          98      99           232     234            3       3           25        25
           25        25          678     685          66      67            65      66          607     613           36        36
 2                                                                   2
           44        44                                                     31      31
          839       847          215     217                               684     691          276     279
          133       134           82      83                                95      96           30      30
           74        75          821     829                                76      77          965     975
          173       175          220     222                               123     124          244     246
           84        85            2       2                                63      64            4       4
                                  12      12                                                     14      14
          328       331            3       3                               302     305            3       3
          138       139            1       1                               296     299            0       0
          250       253            0       0                               159     161            1       1
 3                                                                   3
           37        37            0       0                                23      23            1       1
          199       201            0       0                                36      36            1       1
           15        15          152     154                               218     220          230     232
                                 131     132                                                    163     165
          293       296            8       8                               483     488            9       9
          164       166           19      19                               179     181           38      38
                           15                                                             15
           99       100           13      13                                61      62           32      32
 4                                                                   4
          152       154            1       1                               112     113            0       0
          108       109          939     948                               115     116          835     843
          338       341           11      11                               264     267           22      22
                                   4       4                                                      2       2
           52        53            0       0                                44      44           10      10
          322       325            8       8                               390     394            4       4
           32        32            0       0                                64      65            0       0
           76        77           48      48                                51      52           51      52
          260       263            3       3                               240     242            7       7          FUTURE
 5
           61        62            9       9
                                                                     5
                                                                            55      56            1       1         NO BUILD
           44        44           49      49                                37      37           20      20
          245       247          190     192                               199     201          110     111
           40        40            0       0                                71      72            0       0
           59        60          178     180                                93      94          187     189
          274       277                                                    300     303
           34        34            2       2                                63      64            7       7
                                 382     386                                                    512     517
          879       888          162     164                              1078    1089           63      64
 6       1016      1026          136     137                         6     810     818          134     135
           20        20           51      52                                43      43           86      87
                                  61      62                                                     52      53
                           16                                                             16
           19        19          125     126                                22      22           39      39
         1035      1045          443     447                              1138    1149          462     467
           18        18            2       2                                 2       2           11      11
           19        19           12      12                                70      71            6       6
           70        71          153     155                                69      70           18      18
           21        21           14      14                                96      97            7       7
 7                                                                   7
           22        22                                                      4       4
         1063      1074           14      14                               887     896           17      17
           16        16          415     419                                15      15          494     499
           38        38           46      46                                15      15           36      36
          102       103           81      82                                35      35           52      53
           46        46           15      15                                19      19           17      17
                                   2       2                                                      9       9
                           17                                                             17
           30        30            5       5                               122     123           16      16
          147       148          447     451                               153     155          456     461
          233       235            9       9                               179     181           17      17
 8                                                                   8
           57        58           12      12                                51      52           17      17
           79        80           14      14                                18      18            8       8
           60        61           13      13                                16      16           15      15

            3         3            1       1                                53      54            9       9
            1         1          431     435                               109     110          488     493
 9                                                                   9
          149       150           25      25                               258     261           26      26
          393       397           37      37                               149     150           51      52
                                   3       3                                                     12      12
          122       123           15      15                                88      89           27      27
                           18                                                             18
          149       150            4       4                               258     261           28      28
          112       113          410     414                                72      73          486     491
 10                                                                  10
           14        14            4       4                                30      30           12      12
          329       332            9       9                               208     210           11      11
           51        52            6       6                                30      30            1       1
                                   6       6                                                     16      16
          382       386                                                    208     210
            2         2           24      24                               418     422           46      46
 11                                                                  11
            1         1         1070    1081                                54      55         1203    1215
          329       332         1100    1111                                20      20          900     909
                           19                                                             19
                                  19      19                                                     47      47
           95        96           25      25                               122     123           37      37
          899       908            1       1                              1089    1100            6       6
          959       969                                                    800     808
 12                                                                  12
           11        11                                                     20      20
            4         4                                                     19      19
            9         9                                                     85      86                                               31
AM    INPUT -->   0.0025               0.0025              0.0025   PM           0.0025               0.0025                 0.0025
                       9                    9                   9                     9                    9                      9
            59        60         135      138         96       98           13       13         214      219           116      119
             0         0         542      554         15       15            0        0         541      553            12       12
            16        16         146      149         20       20            4        4         103      105            16       16
                                                20                                                             20
            13        13          73       75        282      288           21       21          81       83           338      346
           189       193         196      200        216      221          267      273         287      294           211      216
            16        16          55       56        199      204           51       52          50       51           166      170
 1                         13                                        1                    13
            12        12          56       57                               37       38          46       47
             1         1         589      602         37      38             3        3         514      526            59      60
             7         7          35       36        464     475             8        8          27       28           641     656
             9         9          27       28          8       8             5        5          27       28            11      11
           351       359         262      268          6       6           130      133         182      186            11      11
             9         9         209      214         23      24            34       35         103      105            25      26
                                                       2       2                                                         9       9
                                                21                                                             21
           35        36          625     639          25      26            91      93          646     661             28      29
          780       798            2       2         607     621           937     958           10      10            501     512
           88        90            8       8          14      14            80      82            9       9              4       4
                           14                                                             14
           47        48            4       4           8       8            73      75           17      17              1       1
          214       219            3       3          98     100           232     237            3       3             25      26
           25        26          678     693          66      67            65      66          607     621             36      37
 2                                                                   2
           44        45                                                     31      32
          839       858          215     220                               684     700          276     282
          133       136           82      84                                95      97           30      31
           74        76          821     840                                76      78          965     987
          173       177          220     225                               123     126          244     250
           84        86            2       2                                63      64            4       4
                                  12      12                                                     14      14
          328       335            3       3                               302     309            3       3
          138       141            1       1                               296     303            0       0
          250       256            0       0                               159     163            1       1
 3                                                                   3
           37        38            0       0                                23      24            1       1
          199       204            0       0                                36      37            1       1
           15        15          152     155                               218     223          230     235
                                 131     134                                                    163     167
          293       300            8       8                               483     494            9       9
          164       168           19      19                               179     183           38      39
                           15                                                             15
           99       101           13      13                                61      62           32      33
 4                                                                   4
          152       155            1       1                               112     115            0       0
          108       110          939     960                               115     118          835     854
          338       346           11      11                               264     270           22      22
                                   4       4                                                      2       2
           52        53            0       0                                44      45           10      10
          322       329            8       8                               390     399            4       4
           32        33            0       0                                64      65            0       0
           76        78           48      49                                51      52           51      52
          260       266            3       3                               240     245            7       7           FUTURE
 5
           61        62            9       9
                                                                     5
                                                                            55      56            1       1         NO BUILD + 5
           44        45           49      50                                37      38           20      20
          245       251          190     194                               199     204          110     112
           40        41            0       0                                71      73            0       0
           59        60          178     182                                93      95          187     191
          274       280                                                    300     307
           34        35            2       2                                63      64            7       7
                                 382     391                                                    512     524
          879       899          162     166                              1078    1102           63      64
 6       1016      1039          136     139                         6     810     828          134     137
           20        20           51      52                                43      44           86      88
                                  61      62                                                     52      53
                           16                                                             16
           19        19          125     128                                22      22           39      40
         1035      1059          443     453                              1138    1164          462     472
           18        18            2       2                                 2       2           11      11
           19        19           12      12                                70      72            6       6
           70        72          153     156                                69      71           18      18
           21        21           14      14                                96      98            7       7
 7                                                                   7
           22        22                                                      4       4
         1063      1087           14      14                               887     907           17      17
           16        16          415     424                                15      15          494     505
           38        39           46      47                                15      15           36      37
          102       104           81      83                                35      36           52      53
           46        47           15      15                                19      19           17      17
                                   2       2                                                      9       9
                           17                                                             17
           30        31            5       5                               122     125           16      16
          147       150          447     457                               153     156          456     466
          233       238            9       9                               179     183           17      17
 8                                                                   8
           57        58           12      12                                51      52           17      17
           79        81           14      14                                18      18            8       8
           60        61           13      13                                16      16           15      15

            3         3            1       1                                53      54            9       9
            1         1          431     441                               109     111          488     499
 9                                                                   9
          149       152           25      26                               258     264           26      27
          393       402           37      38                               149     152           51      52
                                   3       3                                                     12      12
          122       125           15      15                                88      90           27      28
                           18                                                             18
          149       152            4       4                               258     264           28      29
          112       115          410     419                                72      74          486     497
 10                                                                  10
           14        14            4       4                                30      31           12      12
          329       336            9       9                               208     213           11      11
           51        52            6       6                                30      31            1       1
                                   6       6                                                     16      16
          382       391                                                    208     213
            2         2           24      25                               418     427           46      47
 11                                                                  11
            1         1         1070    1094                                54      55         1203    1230
          329       336         1100    1125                                20      20          900     920
                           19                                                             19
                                  19      19                                                     47      48
           95        97           25      26                               122     125           37      38
          899       919            1       1                              1089    1114            6       6
          959       981                                                    800     818
 12                                                                  12
           11        11                                                     20      20
            4         4                                                     19      19
            9         9                                                     85      87                                                32
TRIP GENERATION 
 



Trip  generation  at  a  university  or  college  is  principally  a  function  of  the  student  body.    Student 
population  at  Villanova  has  remained  consistent  and  flat  for  the  last  20+  years  as  depicted  in  the 
following chart: 
                                                             
                                                             




                                                                                              
 
The  project  includes  no  new  instructional  space  and  is  principally  aimed  at  addressing  currently
unmet student desires, namely more oncampus housing for existing undergraduate upperclassmen 
(juniors and seniors).  At present 1,779 of the 2,982 fulltime undergraduate juniors and seniors live 
off  campus1  and  therefore  currently  commute  to  classes,  often  during  weekday  commuter  peak 
periods.  Thus, if the project is constructed, peak hour traffic both at site driveways and in the study 
area generally will be reduced as a result of the project.   
 
It  should  be  noted  that  students  who  once  lived  offcampus  in  rental  housing  will  likely  be  replaced 
by  new  tenants.   Those  tenants  may  be  students  of  other  institutions  or  may  not  be  students  at  all, 
but  in  any  event  it  is  unlikely  that  all  the  new  tenants  will  be  other  Villanova  students.   Thus  it  is 
likely that those new tenants who are not Villanova students will not travel to or from the Villanova 
campus,  thereby  further  reinforcing  the  notion  that  the  project  will  result  in  some  net  reduction  of 
peak  hour  traffic  in  the  study  area.   Even  so,  there  is  no  practical  way  to  remove  peak  hour  traffic 
associated  with  the  currentlycommuting  undergraduate  students  from  the  existing  counts  of  the 
intersections  in  the  study  area,  and  so  for  this  reason  future  peak  hour  traffic  estimates  are  doubly 
conservative  ­  firstly  due  to  the  fact  that  the  project  does  not  include  any  instructional  space  and 
therefore  does  not  include  any  real  new  traffic  and  secondly  due  to  the  doublecounting  just 
described.. 
 
SITEDERIVED TRIP GENERATION              


 



Traffic  counts  were  not  conducted  at  every  driveway  to  every  parking  facility  on  the  entire  campus 
nor  were  students  polled  to  determine  mass  transit  usage,  but  some  measure  of  sitespecific  trip 
generation can still be derived from collected data. 
 
There  are  1,783  parking  spaces  found  on  the  Main  Lot,  the  Pike  Lot,  and  the  Visitor's  Lot 
(combined).   These  spaces  represent  34.7%  of  total  parking  supply.   Determining  the  traffic  activity 
(i.e.,  entering  and  exiting  traffic)  of  these  parking  lots  and  dividing  by  the  parking  supply  factor 

1
     Fall 2012 semester data.
                                                                                                                             33
(34.7%)  will  yield  approximate  campuswide  trip  generation  activity  which  can  then  be  compared 
with  the  number  of  students  currently  attending  Villanova  (10,127)  so  that  a  trip  generation  rate 
per student can be derived.  This rate can then be compared with ITE rates, as an added backcheck.   
 
TRIP GENERATION TRAFFIC COUNTS               


 



Turning Movement (manual) and Automatic Traffic Recorder (ATR) traffic counts were conducted at 
every  driveway  serving  the  Main  and  Pike  Lots  in  Fall  2011.   The  trip  generation  activity  gathered 
from the turning movement counts is summarized in Table 1: 
  
              Table 1 ­ Main Lot + Pike Lot + Visitor Lot Traffic Activity, All Driveways 
                                                             

                                            AM Peak Hour6                                  PM Peak Hour7 
         Source/Date 
                                     IN         OUT        TOTAL                   IN          OUT        TOTAL 
     09/2011, TM counts             405          50         455                   352          404         756 
 
The  potential  use  of  this  data  as  a  building  block  for  forecasting  trip  generation  arising  from  the 
project  is  a  critical  element  of  study  and  so  was  validated  a  few  different  ways.   The  focus  of  the 
validation  effort  was  placed  on  the  four  driveways  along  Ithan  Avenue  which,  collectively,  process 
the majority of traffic to and from the parking lots. 
 
Table  2  summarizes  the  gathered  traffic  count  data  with  the  first  row  being  a  repeat  of  the  trip 
generation  numbers  contained  in  Table  1  (but  as  a  subset  of  just  Ithan  Avenue  driveways).    Note 
that  an  8th  column  is  introduced  in  Table  2,  namely  the  sum  of  AM  and  PM  peak  hour  total 
entering/exiting  activity.   It  is  this  value  which  can  be  used  as  a  metric  to  gauge  the  validity  of  the 
2011  turning  movement  data.    Note  that  additional  turning  movement  counts  were  conducted  in 
2013 as well, as shown in the table below. 
 
          Table 2 ­ Main Lot + Pike Lot + Visitor Lot Traffic Activity, Ithan Avenue Driveways 
                                                             

                                      AM Peak Hour2                              PM Peak Hour3                  AM + PM 
        Source/Date 
                                  IN      OUT       TOTAL                   IN        OUT       TOTAL            TOTAL 
    09/2011, TM counts 
                                 299            7           306            210            236         446           752 
        (Thursday) 
    02/2013, TM counts 
                                 307            13          320            211            220         431           751 
        (Thursday) 
    10/2011, ATR counts 
                                  251           11          262            218            222         440           702 
        (Thursday) 
    10/2011, ATR counts 
                                 257            17          274            229            213         442           716 
         (Tuesday) 

Review  of  the  gathered  data  confirms  that  the  09/2011  turning  movement  traffic  counts  continues 
to  be  valid  as  the  basis  of  trip  generation  for  the  project.    Raw  count  data  is  provided  in  the 
appendix of this deliverable. 



2
     7:458:45 AM from 2011 turning movement counts (8:00 to 9:00 used for ATR data). 
3
     5:006:00 PM from 2011 turning movement counts (same hour used for ATR data).
                                                                                                                             34
VILLANOVA TRIP GENERATION vs PUBLISHED TRIP GENERATION                       


 



Similar  to  the  parking  demand  exercise,  the  gathered  traffic  counts  can  be  used  to  generate  a 
Universityspecific  trip  generation  rate.    This  rate  can  be  compared  with  rates  published  by  the 
Institute  of  Transportation  Engineers  (ITE)  in  its  publication,  Trip  Generation.   Trip  Generation  is  a 
collection  of  empirical  data  which  has  been  combined,  reviewed,  and  statistically  analyzed  to 
generate  parking  rates  to  be  used  as  a  guide  in  planning  new  facilities.    Trip  Generation  includes 
dozens of different land use categories including Land Use Code 550:  University/College. 
 
To  generate  a  parking  demand  rate,  traffic  count  data  must  be  correlated  with  a  variable.    Trip 
Generation  incorporates  the  use  of  two  variables  for  University/College  land  uses,  namely 
"students"  and  "employees".    The  studentbased  dataset  is  larger  and  appears  to  be  the  more 
appropriate variable.   
 
As  mentioned  earlier,  the  current  student  population  totals  10,127  students.   AM  peak  hour  traffic 
activity totals 455 trips and PM peak hour traffic totals 756 trips (see Table 1).  Villanovaspecific trip 
generation  rates  derived  from  school  population  and  comparison  with  ITE's  LUC  550  category  rates 
follows in Table 3 and Table 4: 
 
                                Table 3:  Trip Generation Rate Derivation 
     

                                                               PARKING SUPPLY          DIVIDED BY 
               TIME PERIOD             TOTAL TRIPS 
                                                               FACTOR APPLIED        STUDENT BODY 
              AM Peak Hour                  455                     1311                   0.129 

              PM Peak Hour                  756                     2179                   0.215 
 
                                 Table 4:  Trip Generation Rate Comparison 
                                                            

                                          TRIP GENERATION RATE (PER STUDENT) 
        DATA SOURCE 
                                 AM Peak Hour       PM Peak Hour       AM + PM Combined 
           Villanova                   0.129                       0.215                       0.344 

              ITE                      0.170                       0.170                       0.340 
 
 
Villanovaspecific  rates  are  reasonably  wellcorrelated  with  ITE  data.    Note  this  exercise  does  not 
specifically  address  the  influence  of  mass  transit,  though  whatever  patronage  of  mass  transit 
currently  exists  is  reflected  in  collected  traffic  count  data.    More  importantly,  this  exercise  was 
merely  just  that  ­  an  exercise  ­  since  the  project  does  not  include  any  new  students  and  in  fact  is 
expected to result in a reduction of class day peak period traffic to and from the site since currently
commuting  juniors  and  seniors  will  now  be  living  in  the  new  housing  of  the  site.   The  project  does, 
however,  feature  an  increase  in  parking  spaces  and  as  previously  mentioned  and  agreed,  this  study 
examines  the  potential  traffic  associated  with  that  increase  in  parking  spaces  by  applying  site
specific trip generation rates (using parking spaces as a variable) to the proposed increase in parking 
supply  (a  total  net  increase  of  323  spaces).   The  trip  generation  rates  to  be  used  are  summarized  in 
Tables 5 through 8: 
 
                                                                                                                          35
                             Table 5:  Project Trip Generation Rate Derivation 
       

                                                              PARKING SPACES       TRIP GENERATION 
                TIME PERIOD           TOTAL TRIPS 
                                                                 SERVED             RATE PER SPACE 
                AM Peak Hour                455                    1783                   0.255 

                PM Peak Hour                756                    1783                   0.424 
 
 
                           Table 6 ­ Trip Generation Directional Split Derivation 
                                                           

                                           AM Peak Hour                                 PM Peak Hour 
    09/2011, TM counts 
                                   IN          OUT       TOTAL                  IN          OUT       TOTAL 
           Volumes                405           50        455                  352          404        756 
          Percentages             89%          11%       100%                  47%          53%       100% 
 
 
                                   Table 7 ­ Project Trip Generation Rates 
                                                           

                                        AM Peak Hour                                 PM Peak Hour 
  Trip Generation Rate 
                                   IN       OUT       TOTAL                     IN       OUT       TOTAL 
(Trips per Parking Space) 
                                 0.227     0.028      0.255                   0.197     0.227      0.424 
 
 
These  rates are  useful  to  apply  to  driveways/locations  where "all  new"  parking  is  proposed,  such  as 
at  the  Aldwyn  Triangle.    Where  parking  currently  is  exists  and  is  only  being  increased/decreased, 
such  as  at  Main  Lot  and  Pike  Lot,  the  existing  turning  movement  volumes  at  existing  driveways  are 
scaled  proportionately  with  the  proposed  increase  or  decrease  in  spaces.    Likewise,  subsequent 
downstream/upstream  `feeder'  turning  movements  are  also  modified  proportionately,  all  of  which 
is  detailed  in  the  next  two  sections  ­  Trip  Distribution  Worksheets  /  Figures  and  Trip  Distribution 
Spreadsheets. 
 
The  net  new  traffic  associated  with  the  project  using  the  rates  shown  above  is  presented  on  the 
next  page  in  Table  8.   Note  that  the  actual  number  of  trips  shown  in  the  figures  on  the  following 
pages  sum  up  to  values  slightly  different  compared  to  those  shown  in  Table  8.   This  is  because  the 
proposed  323  parking  spaces  are  broken  up  over  multiple  areas  and  the  effect  of  this  is  to  cause 
some  differences  due  to  rounding,  the  effect  of  which  is  multiplied  due  to  the  many  different 
locations.  The total number of new AM and PM peak hour trips which are found systemwide in the 
subsequent worksheets/figures are shown in Table 9, which also includes a comparison with a direct 
application  of  the  rates  from  Table  7.    As  shown,  the  rounding  described  earlier  results  in  a 
difference  of  6  trips  during  the  AM  peak  hour  and  12  trips  during  the  PM  peak  hour.   The  effect  of 
these  differences  on  level  of  service  calculations  are  imperceptible  due  to  associated  trip 
distribution  /  dilution.    Note  also  that  the  actual  trips  used  in  the  study  during  the  PM  peak  hour 
are overreported (by 12 trips). 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                         36
 
                        Table 8:  Site Trip Generation  
         

                              AM PEAK HOUR         PM PEAK HOUR 
              METHOD 
                               TOTAL TRIPS          TOTAL TRIPS 
            Straight Rate 
                                     82                    137 
             Application 
 
 
            Table 9:  Trip Generation ­ Rates versus Used in Study 
         

                              AM PEAK HOUR         PM PEAK HOUR 
              METHOD 
                               TOTAL TRIPS          TOTAL TRIPS 
             Straight Rate 
                                     82                    137 
              Application 
            From Figures / 
                                     76                    149 
            Used in Study 
 
     
     




                                                                      37
                                                                                           F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                                        Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan Avenue and driveways to                                                                                                                                                     File Name                         : IthDways_AM2011
east and west lots                                                                                                                                                                Site Code                         : 00000111
                                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date                        : 9/29/2011
day of week: Thursday                                                                                                                                                             Page No                           :1
                                                                                   Groups Printed- cars - HV - Nova security truck
                                 Ithan Avenue                                      Villanova east lot                Ithan Avenue                                                                    Villanova west lot
                                  Southbound                                          Westbound                       Northbound                                                                         Eastbound
                                                                                                R out                                                                                       L out       T out       R out
 Start Time        L in Pike   Thru   R in Main   Peds   App. Total   L out Pike   T out Pike
                                                                                                 Pike
                                                                                                        Peds    App. Total   L in Main    Thru   R in Pike     Peds        App. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                            Main        Main         Main
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Peds      App. Total    Int. Total

   07:00 AM            5        12         8        0        25              2            0       0       12         14            0        7          0             0          7             0           0           1           0            1        47
   07:15 AM           14        13         6        0        33              0            0       0       14         14            0       27          0             1         28             1           0           1           1            3        78
   07:30 AM           12        35         5        3        55              0            0       0       24         24            4       21          3             0         28             1           0           1           0            2       109
   07:45 AM           16        11        20        0        47              0            0       1       18         19            3       45          2             0         50             0           0           1           0            1       117
       Total          47        71        39        3       160              2            0       1       68         71            7      100          5             1        113             2           0           4           1            7       351

   08:00 AM          30         11      38          0        79              1            0       0       69        70           13        35        5               0         53             0           0           1           0            1       203
   08:15 AM          51         15      50          1       117              0            0       1      150       151           26        47        5               0         78             0           0           0           0            0       346
   08:30 AM          15         20      14          0        49              0            0       0       23        23            9        48        2               0         59             1           0           1           0            2       133
   08:45 AM          14         22      19          0        55              1            0       1       10        12           10        53        2               2         67             4           0           0           0            4       138
       Total        110         68     121          1       300              2            0       2      252       256           58       183       14               2        257             5           0           2           0            7       820

  Grand Total          157     139 160              4       460            4              0       3      320       327        65          283   19                3           370           7             0    6                1          14        1171
  Apprch % 34.1                30.2 34.8          0.9                    1.2              0     0.9      97.9                17.6         76.5  5.1             0.8                       50              0 42.9              7.1
      Total % 13.4             11.9 13.7          0.3      39.3          0.3              0     0.3      27.3     27.9        5.6         24.2  1.6             0.3          31.6         0.6             0  0.5             0.1         1.2
            cars 157           132 160              4      453             2              0       3      312      317         62          274   18                3          357            6             0    3                1        10          1137
       % cars 100               95 100            100      98.5          50               0     100      97.5     96.9       95.4         96.8 94.7             100          96.5        85.7             0  50              100        71.4         97.1
               HV        0        7    0            0         7            0              0       0         0        0          0            8    0               0             8           0             0    0                0          0           15
         % HV            0        5    0            0       1.5            0              0       0         0        0          0          2.8    0               0           2.2           0             0    0                0          0          1.3
 Nova security truck     0        0    0            0         0            2              0       0         8       10          3            1    1               0             5           1             0    3                0          4           19
 % Nova security truck   0        0    0            0         0          50               0       0       2.5      3.1        4.6          0.4  5.3               0           1.4        14.3             0  50                 0       28.6          1.6




                            Ithan Avenue                         Villanova east lot                                                         Ithan Avenue                                             Villanova west lot
                             Southbound                             Westbound                                                                Northbound                                                  Eastbound
    Start Time L in Pike     Thru R in Main App. Total L out Pike T out Pike R out Pike App. Total                            L in Main      Thru R in Pike              App. Total     L out Main     T out Main    R out Main   App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:45 AM to 08:30 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
      07:45 AM           16    11      20         47           0          0          1          1                                   3          45                2             50            0             0              1                1             99
      08:00 AM           30    11      38         79           1          0          0          1                                  13          35                5             53            0             0              1                1            134
      08:15 AM           51    15      50        116           0          0          1          1                                  26          47                5             78            0             0              0                0            195
      08:30 AM           15    20      14         49           0          0          0          0                                   9          48                2             59            1             0              1                2            110
 Total Volume           112    57    122         291           1          0          2          3                                  51         175              14             240            1             0              3                4            538
  % App. Total         38.5  19.6   41.9                 33.3             0    66.7                                              21.2        72.9              5.8                          25             0             75
              PHF      .549  .713   .610        .627     .250       .000       .500         .750                                 .490        .911            .700            .769         .250          .000           .750           .500             .690
               cars     112    54    122         288           1          0          2          3                                  49         172              14             235            1             0              1              2              528
          % cars        100  94.7    100        99.0      100             0     100          100                                 96.1        98.3             100            97.9          100             0           33.3           50.0             98.1
                 HV       0     3        0          3          0          0          0          0                                   0           3                0              3            0             0              0              0                6
            % HV          0   5.3        0        1.0          0          0          0          0                                   0         1.7                0            1.3            0             0              0              0              1.1
 Nova security truck      0     0        0          0          0          0          0          0                                   2           0                0              2            0             0              2              2                4
 % Nova security truck    0     0        0          0          0          0          0          0                                 3.9           0                0            0.8            0             0           66.7           50.0              0.7




ATR data was collected only to supplement, not to replace or supercede, turning movement data.  ATR equipment used 
is  hosebased  and  records  axle  hits.   The  parking  lots  driveways  surveyed  either  have  short  throats  or  are  signalized 
resulting  in  traffic  which  is  sometimes  traveling  so  slowly  as  to  confuse  the  count  equipment.   Traffic  sometimes  hits 
tubes on an angle and can result in double counting.  This data is provided as a guide of traffic activity trends at the lots.



                                                            Trip Generation back up count data (turning movement and ATR counts)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     38
                                                                  F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                             105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                             Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan Avenue and driveways to                                                                                                               File Name             : IthDways_AM
east and west lots                                                                                                                          Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                                            Start Date            : 2/14/2013
day of week: Thursday                                                                                                                       Page No               :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- Combined Groups
                               Ithan Avenue                      Villanova east lot            Ithan Avenue                                 Villanova west lot
                                Southbound                          Westbound                   Northbound                                      Eastbound
       Start Time    L in Pike   R in Main   App. Total   L out Pike   R out Pike   App. Total   L in Main   R in Pike   App. Total   L out Main   R out Main   App. Total   Int. Total
        07:30 AM          12            3           15            0            0            0           4           1            5            1            1            2           22
        07:45 AM          14           10           24            1            1            2           1           3            4            0            0            0           30
             Total        26           13           39            1            1            2           5           4            9            1            1            2           52

        08:00 AM          30           26           56            1            0            1          10          10           20            2            0            2          79
        08:15 AM          52           42           94            2            1            3          24          24           48            2            0            2         147
        08:30 AM          22           17           39            0            1            1           5           4            9            0            1            1          50
        08:45 AM          19           10           29            0            2            2           9           3           12            0            1            1          44
            Total        123           95          218            3            4            7          48          41           89            4            2            6         320

      Grand Total       149          108           257           4            5             9        53          45             98           5            3             8         372
       Apprch %          58           42                      44.4         55.6                     54.1        45.9                      62.5         37.5
         Total %        40.1          29          69.1         1.1          1.3           2.4       14.2        12.1          26.3         1.3          0.8           2.2




                               Ithan Avenue                      Villanova east lot                         Ithan Avenue                    Villanova west lot
                                Southbound                          Westbound                                Northbound                         Eastbound
       Start Time    L in Pike   R in Main   App. Total   L out Pike   R out Pike   App. Total L in Main R in Pike App. Total         L out Main   R out Main   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM           30        26          56     1                     0             1         10          10            20           2            0             2          79
        08:15 AM           52        42          94     2                     1             3         24          24            48           2            0             2         147
        08:30 AM           22        17          39     0                     1             1          5           4             9           0            1             1          50
        08:45 AM           19        10          29     0                     2             2          9           3            12           0            1             1          44
     Total Volume         123        95         218     3                     4             7         48          41            89           4            2             6         320
     % App. Total        56.4      43.6              42.9                  57.1                     53.9        46.1                      66.7         33.3
              PHF        .591      .565        .580  .375                  .500          .583       .500        .427          .464        .500         .500          .750        .544




ATR data was collected only to supplement, not to replace or supercede, turning movement data.  ATR equipment used 
is  hosebased  and  records  axle  hits.   The  parking  lots  driveways  surveyed  either  have  short  throats  or  are  signalized 
resulting  in  traffic  which  is  sometimes  traveling  so  slowly  as  to  confuse  the  count  equipment.   Traffic  sometimes  hits 
tubes on an angle and can result in double counting.  This data is provided as a guide of traffic activity trends at the lots.



                                               Trip Generation back up count data (turning movement and ATR counts)
                                                                                                                                                                                39
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Rt 30 & Church Walk                                                                                                    File Name         : 30Church_AM
                                                                                                                       Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date        : 9/29/2011
day of week: Thursday                                                                                                  Page No           :1
                                                       Groups Printed- cars - HV - school buses
                   Villanova/SEPT
                                              US 30                              Villanova/SEPTA                       US 30
                          A
                                                Westbound                           Northbound                           Eastbound
                    Southbound
     Start Time     Peds App. Total    Left    Thru    Peds App. Total   Left     Right      Peds App. Total   Thru     Right     Peds App. Total   Int. Total
      07:00 AM          0        0       0      136      21      157       0         0          0         0     165        4         0      169           326
      07:15 AM          0        0       2      140      16      158       0         2          0         2     167       10         1      178           338
      07:30 AM          2        2       0      185      15      200       4         1          1         6     194        9         5      208           416
      07:45 AM          0        0       0      199      27      226       0         0          0         0     223       19         6      248           474
           Total        2        2       2      660      79      741       4         3          1         8     749       42        12      803          1554

      08:00 AM         1         1       4      234      83       321      3         2          4         9    180        30         6       216         547
      08:15 AM         2         2       5      213     225       443      1         1          1         3    209        31        14       254         702
      08:30 AM         0         0       2      207      55       264      5         1          1         7    214        15         2       231         502
      08:45 AM         0         0       1      193      55       249      3         0          0         3    207        28         2       237         489
          Total        3         3      12      847     418      1277     12         4          6        22    810       104        24       938        2240

    Grand Total        5         5      14     1507    497       2018     16          7         7        30    1559      146        36      1741        3794
      Apprch %       100                0.7    74.7    24.6              53.3      23.3      23.3              89.5      8.4       2.1
        Total %      0.1       0.1      0.4    39.7    13.1      53.2     0.4       0.2       0.2       0.8    41.1      3.8       0.9      45.9
           cars        5         5      14     1431    497       1942     15          7         7       29     1464      145        36      1645        3621
         % cars      100       100     100       95    100       96.2    93.8      100       100       96.7    93.9     99.3       100      94.5        95.4
            HV         0         0        0      63       0        63       1         0         0         1      90        1         0        91         155
          % HV         0         0        0     4.2       0       3.1     6.2         0         0       3.3     5.8      0.7         0       5.2         4.1
   school buses        0         0        0      13       0        13       0         0         0         0       5        0         0         5          18
 % school buses        0         0        0     0.9       0       0.6       0         0         0         0     0.3        0         0       0.3         0.5




                                              US 30                         Villanova/SEPTA                        US 30
                        Southbou
                                                Westbound                      Northbound                            Eastbound
                            nd
         Start Time      App. Total        Left     Thru  App. Total      Left       Right      App. Total     Thru       Right     App. Total      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
           07:45 AM               0           0      199         199        0            0              0       223          19           242            441
           08:00 AM               0           4      234         238        3            2              5       180          30           210            453
           08:15 AM               0           5      213         218        1            1              2       209          31           240            460
           08:30 AM               0           2      207         209        5            1              6       214          15           229            444
       Total Volume               0         11       853         864        9            4             13       826          95           921           1798
       % App. Total                         1.3     98.7                 69.2         30.8                     89.7        10.3
                PHF            .000       .550      .911        .908     .450         .500           .542      .926        .766           .951          .977
                cars              0         11       808         819        8            4             12       774          94            868          1699
              % cars              0        100      94.7        94.8     88.9          100           92.3      93.7        98.9           94.2          94.5
                 HV               0           0       40          40        1            0              1        51           1             52            93
               % HV               0           0       4.7         4.6    11.1            0            7.7        6.2        1.1            5.6           5.2
       school buses               0           0         5           5       0            0              0          1          0              1             6
     % school buses               0           0       0.6         0.6       0            0              0        0.1          0            0.1           0.3




ATR data was collected only to supplement, not to replace or supercede, turning movement data.  ATR equipment used 
is  hosebased  and  records  axle  hits.   The  parking  lots  driveways  surveyed  either  have  short  throats  or  are  signalized 
resulting  in  traffic  which  is  sometimes  traveling  so  slowly  as  to  confuse  the  count  equipment.   Traffic  sometimes  hits 
tubes on an angle and can result in double counting.  This data is provided as a guide of traffic activity trends at the lots.



                                         Trip Generation back up count data (turning movement and ATR counts)
                                                                                                                                                       40
                                                      F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                               105 Kenilworth Street
                                                               Philadelphia, PA 19147


Rt 30 & east lot exit                                                                                File Name     : 30EastLot_AM
                                                                                                     Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                     Start Date    : 9/29/2011
day of week: Thursday                                                                                Page No       :1
                                                             Groups Printed- total vehicles
                                                                           Villanova/SEPTA
                                                                              Northbound
                                  Start Time                     Left                  Right        App. Total                 Int. Total
                                   07:00 AM                        1                       2                3                          3
                                   07:15 AM                        0                       1                1                          1
                                   07:30 AM                        2                       3                5                          5
                                   07:45 AM                        0                       3                3                          3
                                        Total                      3                       9               12                         12

                                   08:00 AM                        2                     2                  4                           4
                                   08:15 AM                        6                    11                 17                          17
                                   08:30 AM                        2                     4                  6                           6

                                       Total                      10                    17                 27                          27

                                 Grand Total                      13                    26                 39                          39
                                   Apprch %                      33.3                  66.7
                                    Total %                      33.3                  66.7               100




                                                                           Villanova/SEPTA
                                                                             Northbound
                                     Start Time                  Left                 Right         App. Total                 Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:45 AM to 08:30 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
                                      07:45 AM                      0                     3                 3                           3
                                      08:00 AM                      2                     2                 4                           4
                                      08:15 AM                      6                    11                17                          17
                                      08:30 AM                      2                     4                 6                           6
                                   Total Volume                    10                    20                30                          30
                                   % App. Total                  33.3                  66.7
                                            PHF                  .417                  .455              .441                       .441




ATR data was collected only to supplement, not to replace or supercede, turning movement data.  ATR equipment used 
is  hosebased  and  records  axle  hits.   The  parking  lots  driveways  surveyed  either  have  short  throats  or  are  signalized 
resulting  in  traffic  which  is  sometimes  traveling  so  slowly  as  to  confuse  the  count  equipment.   Traffic  sometimes  hits 
tubes on an angle and can result in double counting.  This data is provided as a guide of traffic activity trends at the lots.



                                       Trip Generation back up count data (turning movement and ATR counts)
                                                                                                                                  41
                                                                                           F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                                        Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan Avenue and driveways to                                                                                                                                                    File Name                         : IthDways_PM2011
east and west lots                                                                                                                                                               Site Code                         : 00000111
                                                                                                                                                                                 Start Date                        : 9/29/2011
day of week: Thursday                                                                                                                                                            Page No                           :1
                                                                                   Groups Printed- cars - HV - Nova security truck
                                 Ithan Avenue                                      Villanova east lot                Ithan Avenue                                                                   Villanova west lot
                                  Southbound                                          Westbound                       Northbound                                                                        Eastbound
                                                                                                R out                                                                                      L out       T out       R out
 Start Time        L in Main   Thru   R in Pike   Peds   App. Total   L out Pike   T out Pike
                                                                                                 Pike
                                                                                                        Peds    App. Total   L in Pike    Thru   R in Pike    Peds        App. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                           Main        Main         Main
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Peds      App. Total    Int. Total

   04:00 PM             5       36       13         4        58              1            0     17       100       118           3         17          1            2         23           33            0         14            0       47           246
   04:15 PM            16       51       12         3        82              3            0      9        76        88           5         20          1            2         28           12            0         11            0       23           221
   04:30 PM            18       61       15         2        96              2            0     12        72        86           4         22          0            0         26           26            0          8            0       34           242
   04:45 PM            19       44       14         0        77              3            0      6        94       103           3         28          2            0         33           14            0          8            0       22           235
       Total           58      192       54         9       313              9            0     44       342       395          15         87          4            4        110           85            0         41            0      126           944

   05:00 PM            18       72        8         0        98            4              0     10       133       147           9         25        3              2         39          28             0         20            0       48          332
   05:15 PM             8       65       28         0       101            9              0     24       167       200           4         22        7              3         36          54             0         16            0       70          407
   05:30 PM            22       89       24         1       136            4              0     11       176       191          10         29        5              2         46          11             0         11            0       22          395
   05:45 PM            24       35       28         0        87            3              0      9        77        89           7         22        5              0         34          16             0          6            0       22          232
       Total           72      261       88         1       422           20              0     54       553       627          30         98       20              7        155         109             0         53            0      162         1366

  Grand Total          130     453 142             10       735         29                0      98      895     1022          45         185   24              11           265         194             0  94                   0      288         2310
  Apprch % 17.7                61.6 19.3          1.4                  2.8                0     9.6      87.6                  17         69.8  9.1            4.2                      67.4             0 32.6                  0
      Total %          5.6     19.6  6.1          0.4      31.8        1.3                0     4.2      38.7    44.2         1.9            8    1            0.5          11.5         8.4             0  4.1                  0     12.5
            cars 130           448 142             10      730          29                0      98      894     1021          45         180   23              11          259          193             0  94                   0     287          2297
       % cars 100              98.9 100           100      99.3        100                0     100      99.9    99.9         100         97.3 95.8            100          97.7        99.5             0 100                   0     99.7         99.4
               HV        0        5    0            0         5          0                0       0         0       0           0            5    1              0             6           0             0    0                  0        0           11
         % HV            0      1.1    0            0       0.7          0                0       0         0       0           0          2.7  4.2              0           2.3           0             0    0                  0        0          0.5
 Nova security truck     0        0    0            0         0          0                0       0         1       1           0            0    0              0             0           1             0    0                  0        1            2
 % Nova security truck   0        0    0            0         0          0                0       0       0.1     0.1           0            0    0              0             0         0.5             0    0                  0      0.3          0.1




                            Ithan Avenue                         Villanova east lot                                                         Ithan Avenue                                            Villanova west lot
                             Southbound                             Westbound                                                                Northbound                                                 Eastbound
    Start Time L in Main     Thru R in Pike App. Total L out Pike T out Pike R out Pike App. Total                            L in Pike      Thru R in Pike             App. Total     L out Main     T out Main    R out Main   App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
      05:00 PM           18    72         8       98           4          0        10         14                                    9          25               3             37           28             0             20             48              197
      05:15 PM            8    65      28        101           9          0        24         33                                    4          22               7             33           54             0             16             70              237
      05:30 PM           22    89      24        135           4          0        11         15                                   10          29               5             44           11             0             11             22              216
      05:45 PM           24    35      28         87           3          0          9        12                                    7          22               5             34           16             0              6             22              155
 Total Volume            72   261      88        421         20           0        54         74                                   30          98              20            148          109             0             53            162              805
  % App. Total         17.1    62   20.9                     27           0        73                                            20.3        66.2            13.5                        67.3             0           32.7
              PHF      .750  .733   .786        .780     .556       .000       .563         .561                                 .750        .845            .714           .841         .505          .000           .663           .579             .849
               cars      72   258      88        418         20           0        54         74                                   30          96              19            145          109             0             53            162              799
          % cars        100  98.9    100        99.3      100             0     100          100                                  100        98.0            95.0           98.0          100             0            100            100             99.3
                 HV       0     3         0         3          0          0          0          0                                   0           2               1              3            0             0              0              0                6
            % HV          0   1.1         0       0.7          0          0          0          0                                   0         2.0             5.0            2.0            0             0              0              0              0.7
 Nova security truck      0     0         0         0          0          0          0          0                                   0           0               0              0            0             0              0              0                0
 % Nova security truck    0     0         0         0          0          0          0          0                                   0           0               0              0            0             0              0              0                0




ATR data was collected only to supplement, not to replace or supercede, turning movement data.  ATR equipment used 
is  hosebased  and  records  axle  hits.   The  parking  lots  driveways  surveyed  either  have  short  throats  or  are  signalized 
resulting  in  traffic  which  is  sometimes  traveling  so  slowly  as  to  confuse  the  count  equipment.   Traffic  sometimes  hits 
tubes on an angle and can result in double counting.  This data is provided as a guide of traffic activity trends at the lots.



                                                            Trip Generation back up count data (turning movement and ATR counts)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    42
                                                             F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                        Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan Avenue and driveways to                                                                                                          File Name             : IthDways_PM
east and west lots                                                                                                                     Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                                       Start Date            : 2/14/2013
day of week: Thursday                                                                                                                  Page No               :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- total vehicles
                             Ithan Avenue                   Villanova east lot              Ithan Avenue                               Villanova west lot
                              Southbound                       Westbound                     Northbound                                    Eastbound
       Start Time L in Main R in Pike   App. Total   L out Pike   R out Pike   App. Total   L in Pike   R in Main   App. Total   L out Main   R out Main   App. Total   Int. Total
        04:45 PM         8        11           19            3            5            8           6           3            9          17           17            34           70
             Total       8        11           19            3            5            8           6           3            9          17           17            34           70

        05:00 PM        17         16          33           4           16            20          7            9           16          41           18            59         128
        05:15 PM        12         15          27           9            8            17          6            5           11          30           22            52         107
        05:30 PM        22         20          42           1            5             6          4            8           12          22           10            32          92
        05:45 PM        22         30          52           3            8            11         14            4           18          17            6            23         104
            Total       73         81         154          17           37            54         31           26           57         110           56           166         431

       06:00 PM        12         19           31           4            4             8          8           4            12           8          10             18          69
      Grand Total      93        111          204          24          46             70        45           33            78         135          83            218         570
       Apprch %       45.6       54.4                    34.3         65.7                     57.7        42.3                      61.9         38.1
         Total %      16.3       19.5        35.8         4.2          8.1          12.3        7.9         5.8          13.7        23.7         14.6          38.2




                             Ithan Avenue                   Villanova east lot                         Ithan Avenue                    Villanova west lot
                              Southbound                       Westbound                                Northbound                         Eastbound
       Start Time L in Main R in Pike App. Total     L out Pike   R out Pike   App. Total   L in Pike   R in Main   App. Total   L out Main   R out Main   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:45 PM to 06:00 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
        05:00 PM           17        16          33     4               16            20          7           9            16          41           18            59         128
        05:15 PM           12        15          27     9                8            17          6           5            11          30           22            52         107
        05:30 PM           22        20          42     1                5             6          4           8            12          22           10            32          92
        05:45 PM           22        30          52     3                8            11         14           4            18          17            6            23         104
     Total Volume          73        81         154    17               37            54         31          26            57         110           56           166         431
     % App. Total        47.4      52.6              31.5             68.5                     54.4        45.6                      66.3         33.7
              PHF        .830      .675        .740  .472             .578          .675       .554        .722          .792        .671         .636          .703        .842




ATR data was collected only to supplement, not to replace or supercede, turning movement data.  ATR equipment used 
is  hosebased  and  records  axle  hits.   The  parking  lots  driveways  surveyed  either  have  short  throats  or  are  signalized 
resulting  in  traffic  which  is  sometimes  traveling  so  slowly  as  to  confuse  the  count  equipment.   Traffic  sometimes  hits 
tubes on an angle and can result in double counting.  This data is provided as a guide of traffic activity trends at the lots.



                                            Trip Generation back up count data (turning movement and ATR counts)
                                                                                                                                                                           43
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Rt 30 & Church Walk                                                                                                    File Name         : 30Church_PM
                                                                                                                       Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date        : 9/29/2011
day of week: Thursday                                                                                                  Page No           :1
                                                       Groups Printed- cars - HV - school buses
                   Villanova/SEPT
                                              US 30                              Villanova/SEPTA                       US 30
                          A
                                                Westbound                           Northbound                           Eastbound
                    Southbound
     Start Time     Peds App. Total    Left    Thru    Peds App. Total   Left     Right      Peds App. Total   Thru     Right     Peds App. Total   Int. Total
      04:00 PM          2        2       1      203      71      275      27         5          8       40      199       13        10      222           539
      04:15 PM          1        1       3      199      74      276      18         8          8       34      187        9        10      206           517
      04:30 PM          2        2       3      218      68      289      24         6          4       34      213       14         7      234           559
      04:45 PM          0        0       3      185      76      264      14         5          3       22      231       26        19      276           562
           Total        5        5      10      805     289     1104      83        24         23      130      830       62        46      938          2177

      05:00 PM         1         1       3      201     125       329     18         2          1        21     260       18        14       292         643
      05:15 PM         1         1       5      211     187       403     41         7          1        49     268       22        29       319         772
      05:30 PM         1         1       3      178      76       257     13         3          0        16     257       45        23       325         599
      05:45 PM         5         5       9      194      96       299     13         7          4        24     247       37        29       313         641
          Total        8         8      20      784     484      1288     85        19          6       110    1032      122        95      1249        2655

    Grand Total       13        13      30     1589    773       2392    168        43        29        240    1862      184       141      2187        4832
      Apprch %       100                1.3    66.4    32.3               70       17.9      12.1              85.1      8.4       6.4
        Total %      0.3       0.3      0.6    32.9     16       49.5    3.5        0.9       0.6         5    38.5      3.8       2.9      45.3
           cars       13        13      30     1560    773       2363    168        43        29        240    1829      184       141      2154        4770
         % cars      100       100     100     98.2    100       98.8    100       100       100        100    98.2      100       100      98.5        98.7
            HV         0         0        0      29       0        29      0          0         0         0      32        0         0        32          61
          % HV         0         0        0     1.8       0       1.2      0          0         0         0     1.7        0         0       1.5         1.3
   school buses        0         0        0       0       0         0      0          0         0         0       1        0         0         1           1
 % school buses        0         0        0       0       0         0      0          0         0         0     0.1        0         0         0           0




                                              US 30                         Villanova/SEPTA                        US 30
                        Southbou
                                                Westbound                      Northbound                            Eastbound
                            nd
         Start Time      App. Total        Left     Thru  App. Total      Left       Right      App. Total     Thru       Right     App. Total      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
           05:00 PM               0           3      201         204       18            2             20       260          18            278           502
           05:15 PM               0           5      211         216       41            7             48       268          22            290           554
           05:30 PM               0           3      178         181       13            3             16       257          45            302           499
           05:45 PM               0           9      194         203       13            7             20       247          37            284           507
       Total Volume               0         20       784         804       85           19            104      1032         122           1154          2062
       % App. Total                         2.5     97.5                 81.7         18.3                     89.4        10.6
                PHF            .000       .556      .929        .931     .518         .679           .542      .963        .678           .955          .931
                cars              0         20       773         793       85           19            104      1020         122           1142          2039
              % cars              0        100      98.6        98.6      100          100            100      98.8         100           99.0          98.9
                 HV               0           0       11          11        0            0              0        12           0             12            23
               % HV               0           0       1.4         1.4       0            0              0        1.2          0            1.0           1.1
       school buses               0           0         0           0       0            0              0          0          0              0             0
     % school buses               0           0         0           0       0            0              0          0          0              0             0




ATR data was collected only to supplement, not to replace or supercede, turning movement data.  ATR equipment used 
is  hosebased  and  records  axle  hits.   The  parking  lots  driveways  surveyed  either  have  short  throats  or  are  signalized 
resulting  in  traffic  which  is  sometimes  traveling  so  slowly  as  to  confuse  the  count  equipment.   Traffic  sometimes  hits 
tubes on an angle and can result in double counting.  This data is provided as a guide of traffic activity trends at the lots.



                                         Trip Generation back up count data (turning movement and ATR counts)
                                                                                                                                                       44
                                                      F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                               105 Kenilworth Street
                                                               Philadelphia, PA 19147


Rt 30 & east lot exit                                                                                File Name      : 30EastLot_PM
                                                                                                     Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                     Start Date     : 9/29/2011
day of week: Thursday                                                                                Page No        :1
                                                             Groups Printed- total vehicles
                                                                           Villanova/SEPTA
                                                                              Northbound
                                  Start Time                     Left                  Right        App. Total                 Int. Total
                                   04:00 PM                        5                       8               13                         13
                                   04:15 PM                        2                       6                8                          8
                                   04:30 PM                        3                       7               10                         10
                                   04:45 PM                        4                       9               13                         13
                                        Total                     14                      30               44                         44

                                   05:00 PM                        6                    14                 20                          20
                                   05:15 PM                        6                    14                 20                          20
                                   05:30 PM                        5                     8                 13                          13
                                   05:45 PM                        4                     7                 11                          11
                                       Total                      21                    43                 64                          64

                                 Grand Total                      35                    73                108                       108
                                   Apprch %                      32.4                  67.6
                                    Total %                      32.4                  67.6               100




                                                                           Villanova/SEPTA
                                                                             Northbound
                                     Start Time                  Left                 Right         App. Total                 Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
                                      05:00 PM                      6                    14                20                          20
                                      05:15 PM                      6                    14                20                          20
                                      05:30 PM                      5                     8                13                          13
                                      05:45 PM                      4                     7                11                          11
                                   Total Volume                    21                    43                64                          64
                                   % App. Total                  32.8                  67.2
                                            PHF                  .875                  .768              .800                       .800




ATR data was collected only to supplement, not to replace or supercede, turning movement data.  ATR equipment used 
is  hosebased  and  records  axle  hits.   The  parking  lots  driveways  surveyed  either  have  short  throats  or  are  signalized 
resulting  in  traffic  which  is  sometimes  traveling  so  slowly  as  to  confuse  the  count  equipment.   Traffic  sometimes  hits 
tubes on an angle and can result in double counting.  This data is provided as a guide of traffic activity trends at the lots.



                                       Trip Generation back up count data (turning movement and ATR counts)
                                                                                                                                  45
                                                                                                                                         Page 1

    Ithan driveways to east lot                                                                                          EAST LOT ITHAN Access


      Start        04-Oct-11             enter               Hour Totals                 exit                Hour Totals        Combined Totals
      Time            Tue         Morning    Afternoon   Morning   Afternoon   Morning       Afternoon   Morning   Afternoon   Morning  Afternoon
         12:00                         *          14                                *              7
         12:15                         *          37                                *              6
         12:30                         *          60                                *              7
         12:45                         *          81         0        192           *             16         0         36          0          228
         01:00                         *           9                                *             22
         01:15                         *          13                                *              6
         01:30                         *          22                                *              4
         01:45                         *          14         0         58           *              8         0         40          0           98
         02:00                         *          26                                *             15
         02:15                         *          40                                *              9
         02:30                         *          21                                *             16
         02:45                         *          19         0        106           *             13         0         53          0          159
         03:00                         *          11                                *             23
         03:15                         *          19                                *              7
         03:30                         *          40                                *             10
         03:45                         *          42         0        112           *              3         0         43          0          155
         04:00                         *          22                                *              9
         04:15                         *          30                                *             18
         04:30                         *          29                                *              7
         04:45                         *          38         0        119           *              8         0         42          0          161
         05:00                         *          36                                *              7
         05:15                         *          47                                *             16
         05:30                         *          52                                *             12
         05:45                         *          59         0        194           *             11         0         46          0          240
         06:00                         *          26                                *             17
         06:15                         *          25                                *              8
         06:30                         *          20                                *             11
         06:45                         *          29         0        100           *             16         0         52          0          152
         07:00                        12          27                                2              7
         07:15                         9          26                                2             10
         07:30                        22          24                                2             14
         07:45                        25          30        68        107           1             17         7         48         75          155
         08:00                        49          22                                2             17
         08:15                        86          12                                0             10
         08:30                        27          29                                2             11
         08:45                        43          15       205         78           3             13         7         51        212          129
         09:00                        26          14                                0             17
         09:15                        36          10                                2             15
         09:30                        56          11                                0             12
         09:45                        90          10       208         45           1             16         3         60        211          105
         10:00                        29           6                                8             15
         10:15                        28          11                                3              7
         10:30                        25           7                                2              7
         10:45                        31           3       113         27           4              6        17         35        130           62
         11:00                        82           4                                4             11
         11:15                        86           5                                5              3
         11:30                        25           8                               17              0
         11:45                        20           2       213         19           3              3        29         17        242           36
          Total                     807        1157                                63           523                              870        1680
        Percent                   41.1%      58.9%                             10.8%          89.2%                            34.1%       65.9%




ATR data was collected only to supplement, not to replace or supercede, turning movement data.  ATR equipment used 
is  hosebased  and  records  axle  hits.   The  parking  lots  driveways  surveyed  either  have  short  throats  or  are  signalized 
resulting  in  traffic  which  is  sometimes  traveling  so  slowly  as  to  confuse  the  count  equipment.   Traffic  sometimes  hits 
tubes on an angle and can result in double counting.  This data is provided as a guide of traffic activity trends at the lots.



                                         Trip Generation back up count data (turning movement and ATR counts)
                                                                                                                                             46
                                                                                                                                         Page 2

    Ithan driveways to east lot                                                                                          EAST LOT ITHAN Access


      Start        05-Oct-11             enter               Hour Totals                 exit                Hour Totals        Combined Totals
      Time           Wed          Morning    Afternoon   Morning   Afternoon   Morning       Afternoon   Morning   Afternoon   Morning  Afternoon
         12:00                         3          35                                3              7
         12:15                         3          48                                1              5
         12:30                         0          34                                3             15
         12:45                         1          44         7        161           1              9         8         36         15          197
         01:00                         0          66                                3              7
         01:15                         4          74                                2              7
         01:30                         1          22                                3              8
         01:45                         3          19         8        181           7              5        15         27         23          208
         02:00                         4          26                                3              5
         02:15                         1          15                                3              4
         02:30                         0          36                                3             13
         02:45                         2          43         7        120           2             16        11         38         18          158
         03:00                         2          19                                2             23
         03:15                         1          23                                2             10
         03:30                         5          26                                1             15
         03:45                         0          12         8         80           0              9         5         57         13          137
         04:00                         0          25                                1             10
         04:15                         0          45                                0             12
         04:30                         0          18                                0             14
         04:45                         2          30         2        118           0             12         1         48          3          166
         05:00                         2          29                                0              4
         05:15                         3          31                                0              9
         05:30                         0          37                                0             16
         05:45                         3          63         8        160           0             18         0         47          8          207
         06:00                        11          46                                1             11
         06:15                         9          32                                1             21
         06:30                        14           7                                0             13
         06:45                         8          34        42        119           3              8         5         53         47          172
         07:00                        14          39                                0              8
         07:15                         8          22                                1             15
         07:30                         8          38                                3             13
         07:45                        25          35        55        134           2             10         6         46         61          180
         08:00                        26          27                                0             12
         08:15                        16          26                                1             11
         08:30                        22          13                                2             10
         08:45                        26          28        90         94           2             13         5         46         95          140
         09:00                        51          20                                3             24
         09:15                        52          15                                0             18
         09:30                        35          11                                3             13
         09:45                        40          15       178         61           0             13         6         68        184          129
         10:00                        51          13                                0             22
         10:15                        49           9                                1             10
         10:30                        18           6                                8              5
         10:45                        15           8       133         36           1              7        10         44        143           80
         11:00                        39           4                                4              7
         11:15                        41           2                                2              3
         11:30                        26           5                               13              6
         11:45                        26           3       132         14           1              3        20         19        152           33
          Total                     670        1278                                92           529                              762        1807
        Percent                   34.4%      65.6%                             14.8%          85.2%                            29.7%       70.3%




ATR data was collected only to supplement, not to replace or supercede, turning movement data.  ATR equipment used 
is  hosebased  and  records  axle  hits.   The  parking  lots  driveways  surveyed  either  have  short  throats  or  are  signalized 
resulting  in  traffic  which  is  sometimes  traveling  so  slowly  as  to  confuse  the  count  equipment.   Traffic  sometimes  hits 
tubes on an angle and can result in double counting.  This data is provided as a guide of traffic activity trends at the lots.



                                         Trip Generation back up count data (turning movement and ATR counts)
                                                                                                                                             47
                                                                                                                                                     F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                  105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                                                                                                                 Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster Avenue & Spring Mill/Sproul Rd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      File Name                                  : 01-30SproulAM
& Kenilworth Rd/Aldwyn Ln                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code                                  : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Start Date                                 : 11/8/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Page No                                    :1
                                                                                                                                                                            Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      North Spring Mill
                                                                                   Lancaster Avenue                                                   Aldwyn Lane                                                            Sproul Road                                               Lancaster Avenue                                                        Kenilworth Road
                           Road
                                                                                      Westbound                                                      Northwestbound                                                          Northbound                                                   Eastbound                                                            Southeastbound
                        Southbound
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lt                                                      Lt
                Lt        Lt                                                  Lt         Lt                                                    Lt        Lt                                                      Lt        Lt                                                        Lt                                                                             Lt
                                                                     App.                                                             App.                                                              App.                                                                 App.               o                                              App.     o                                                         App.     Int.
                oL         o                                                   o          o                                                     o        oL                                                      oL         o                                                         o                                                                            oL
 Start Time                                                          Tota                                                             Tota                                                              Tota                                                                 Tota               S                                              Tota     S                                                         Tota    Tota
                an        Al                                                  Al         Sp                                                    Sp        an                                                      an        Ke                                                        Ke                                                                             an
                                                                        l                                                                l                                                                 l                                                                    l              Mil                                                l    Mil                                                           l        l
                 c         d                                                   d           r                                                     r        c                                                       c         n                                                         n                                                                              c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                       l

                                                                                                      12                                                                                                                                                                                                   15
07:00 AM        6 0                    12     25        0 0 43 0 0                                             1 0 0                  122      0         11           0 1 0 0 12                                 71        0            26        2 1 0                      100     1         43                       11     38        0     246     0 0 0 0 0 0                                                 0      523
                                                                                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                                    3

                                                                                                      18                                                                                                                                                                                                   15
07:15 AM        5 5                    27     40        0 0 77 0 1                                             0 2 0                  191      1         22           0 0 0 0 23                                 69        1            36        7 3 0                      116     0         48                       16     47        0     265     0 0 0 1 4 0                                                 5      677
                                                                                                       8                                                                                                                                                                                                    4

                                                                                                      19                                                                                                                                                                                                   22
07:30 AM        8 2                    36     32        0 1 79 0 4                                             0 2 0                  198      0         16           0 2 0 0 18                                 36        0            40        7 1 0 84 0                                   62                       17     59        1     363     0 0 0 0 1 0                                                 1      743
                                                                                                       2                                                                                                                                                                                                    4

                                                                                                      22                                                                                                                                                                                                   23
07:45 AM        4 3                    28     28        0 2 65 1 1                                             0 2 0                  225      2 7 0 2 0 0 11                                                    50        0            51        17         2 0             120     0         54                       39     62        0     386     0 0 1 1 4 0                                                 6      813
                                                                                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                                    1

 Tota                                  10      12                                                     72                                                                                                         22                     15                                                     20          76                   20
                23        10                            0 3          264      1 6                              1 6 0                  736      3         56           0 5 0 0 64                                           1                      33         7 0             420     1                                  83               1     1260    0 0 1 2 9 0 12                                                     2756
     l                                  3          5                                                   2                                                                                                          6                      3                                                      7           2                       6




                                                                                                      23                                                                                                                                                                                                   19
08:00 AM        5 3                    38     48        0 4 98 1 2                                             0 3 1                  240      1         11           0 2 0 0 14                                 45        0            37        9 4 0 95 2                                   63                       13     42        0     313     0 0 0 0 5 0                                                 5      765
                                                                                                       3                                                                                                                                                                                                    3

                                                                                                      29                                                                                                                                                                                                   17
08:15 AM        2 0                    29     44        0 1 76 2 4                                             1 6 1                  307      0         14           0 2 0 0 16                                 47        0            62        16         2 0             127     0         41                       13     52        0     279     0 0 0 2 2 0                                                 4      809
                                                                                                       3                                                                                                                                                                                                    3

                                                                                                      20                                                                                                                                                                                                   16
08:30 AM        11        1            31     40        0 2 85 0 5                                             0 8 0                  218      0 9 0 2 1 0 12                                                    40        0            44        7 1 0 92 0                                   72                       7      34        0     280     0 1 0 0 3 0                                                 4      691
                                                                                                       5                                                                                                                                                                                                    7

                                                                                                      25                                                                                                                                                                                                   21
08:45 AM        5 2                    16     31        0 1 55 0 3                                             0 3 2                  263      2 6 0 0 0 0                                               8       46        1            44        8 1 0                      100     0         59                       14     42        0     332     0 0 0 1 1 0                                                 2      760
                                                                                                       5                                                                                                                                                                                                    7

 Tota                                  11      16                                                     98                                                                                                         17                     18                                                     23          75                   17
                23        6                             0 8          314      3          14                    1         20    4      1028     3         40           0 6 1 0 50                                           1                      40         8 0             414     2                                  47               0     1204    0 1 0 3                                     11        0 15         3025
     l                                  4          3                                                   6                                                                                                          8                      7                                                      5           0                       0




     Grand                             21      28                                                     17                                                                                                         40                     34                                                     44          15           13      37
                46        16                            0     11     578      4          20                    2         26    4      1764     6         96           0      11        1 0              114                2                      73         15        0     834     3                                                   1     2464    0 1 1 5                                     20        0 27         5781
      Total                             7          8                                                  08                                                                                                          4                      0                                                      2          12            0          6

                                   37.        49.                                                     96.                                                84.                                                     48.                    40.                                                    17.         61.                 15.                                                        18.     74.
 Apprch %       8         2.8                           0     1.9             0.2        1.1                   0.1      1.5   0.2              5.3                    0      9.6       0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2                    8.8        1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                            5.3                  0             0           3.7       3.7                             0
                                        5          8                                                   8                                                  2                                                       4                      8                                                      9           4                       3                                                      5           1

                                                                                                      29.                                                                                                                                                                                                  26.
 Total %        0.8       0.3      3.8
                                                   5      0
                                                              0.2    10       0.1        0.3                   0        0.4   0.1     30.5     0.1       1.7
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                             0     0       2      7         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.9       1.3        0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14.4    0.1       7.6                  2.2        6.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               42.6    0 0 0                              0.1     0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.5
                                                                                                       5                                                                                                                                                                                                    2


    cars        38        16
                                       18      27
                                                        0      11    523      4          19
                                                                                                      16
                                                                                                               2         22    4      1711     6         90           0 0 0 0                            9       37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2            32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      71     15        0     789     3         41          14           13      33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1     2349    0 1 1 4                                     20        0     2      5494
                                        6          2                                                  60                                                                                                 6        7                      4                                                      4          62            0          9                                                                              6
                82.       10       85.        94.              10             10                      97.      10       84.    10              10        93.                                                     93.       10           95.       97.        10                      10        93.         96.          10     90.        10                        10       10                    10
% cars                                                  0            90.5                95                                           97                              0 0 0 0                           84.2                                                           0     94.6                                                              95.3    0                                  80                 0    96.3    95
                 6         0            7          4            0              0                       2           0      6     0               0         8                                                       3         0            3            3           0                   0         7           7            0          2      0                        0         0                        0

    HV 8 0                             31     16        0 0 55 0 1                                    48       0 4 0 53 0 6 0                                                11        1 0 18                    27        0            16        2 0 0 45 0                                   28          50           0      37        0     115     0 0 0 1 0 0                                                 1      287
                17.                14.                                                                                  15.                                                  10        10
% HV                      0                   5.6
                                                          0     0
                                                                     9.5       0          5           2.8
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                               0       3 0               6.2
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0     15.8     6.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.7       2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.4      0        6.3         3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.7     0            0         0           20       0 0            3.7       5
                 4                      3                                                                                 4                                                      0       0




                          North Spring Mill
                                                                                    Lancaster Avenue                                                      Aldwyn Lane                                                            Sproul Road                                               Lancaster Avenue                                                        Kenilworth Road
                               Road
                                                                                       Westbound                                                         Northwestbound                                                          Northbound                                                   Eastbound                                                            Southeastbound
                            Southbound
                  L to                                 R to                                                 T to              R to                             L to                  R to        R to             L to                        T to         R to                                  L to            T to                                   L to         L to                                  R to
                                L to        T to              R to    App.      L to           L to                    R to            App.      L to                     T to                           App.                    L to                                 R to    App.    L to                                   R to       R to    App.                               T to         R to               App.      Int.
   Start Time     Lan                                  Lan                                                  Lan               SM                               Lan                   SM          Lan              Lan                         SM           Lan                                   SM              Lan                                    SM           Lan                                   Lan
                                Ald         Spr               Ken     Total        Ald         Spr                     Ken             Total     Spr                      Ken                            Total               Ken                                      Ald    Total    Ken                                    Ald        Spr    Total                               Ald          Spr               Total    Total
                      c                                  c                                                    c                 ill                              c                     ill         c                   c                        ill          c                                       ill           c                                         ill         c                                   c

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
 07:30 AM 8 2 36 32 0 78 0 4 192 0 2 198 0 16                                                                                                                              0          2           0     18        36              0           40            7          1      84           0     62              224         17         59     362       0               0          0            0          1       1     741
 07:45 AM 4 3 28 28 0 63 1 1 221 0 2 225 2 7                                                                                                                               0          2           0     11        50              0           51           17          2     120       0         54              231         39         62     386       0               0          1            1          4       6     811
 08:00 AM 5 3 38 48 0 94 1 2 233 0 3 239 1 11                                                                                                                              0          2           0      14       45              0           37            9          4     95        2         63              193         13         42     313       0               0          0            0          5       5     760
 08:15 AM 2 0 29 44 0 75 2 4 293 1 6 306 0 14                                                                                                                              0          2           0      16       47              0           62           16          2     127       0         41              173         13         52     279       0               0          0            2          2       4     807
        Total
                  19             8          131        152     0     310            4          11           939         1     13      968            3        48           0          8           0      59       178            0            190          49          9     426       2         220             821         82         215    1340      0               0          1            3         12      16     3119
      Volume

 % App. Total     6.1           2.6         42.3       49      0                0.4            1.1          97         0.1    1.3               5.1           81.4
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                     13.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  41.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              44.6         11.5       2.1             0.1        16.4            61.3        6.1        16                   0           0         6.2          18.8       75
      PHF         .594          .667        .862       .792   .000   .824      .500            .688         .801       .250   .542    .791      .375          .750        .000
                                                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                 .000   .819      .890       .000             .766         .721       .563   .839     .250       .873            .889        .526       .867   .868    .000          .000          .250         .375       .600   .667    .961

    cars          16             8          111        144     0     279            4          10           914         1     11      940            3        44           0          0           0      47       166            0            181          48          9     404       2         204             802         82         196    1286      0               0          1            2         12      15     2971
 % cars           84.2          100         84.7       94.7
                                                                0
                                                                     90.0       100            90.9         97.3       100    84.6    97.1      100           91.7
                                                                                                                                                                            0          0           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        79.7      93.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              95.3         98.0       100    94.8     100        92.7            97.7        100        91.2   96.0      0               0         100          66.7       100    93.8    95.3
  HV                  3          0          20          8      0       31           0           1           25          0      2        28           0          4          0          8           0      12       12              0            9            1          0      22           0     16              19           0         19      54           0           0          0            1          0        1    148
% HV              15.8
                                  0
                                            15.3       5.3     0     10.0           0          9.1          2.7         0     15.4    2.9            0         8.3         0         100          0     20.3      6.7            0            4.7          2.0         0 5.2           0         7.3             2.3          0         8.8    4.0       0               0          0           33.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0    6.3     4.7



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          84
                                                                                                                                               F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                            105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                                                                                                           Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster Avenue & Spring Mill/Sproul Rd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     File Name                                  : 01-30SproulAM
& Kenilworth Rd/Aldwyn Ln                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code                                  : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Start Date                                 : 11/8/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Page No                                    :1
                                                                                                                                                                                Groups Printed- HV
                      North Spring Mill
                                                                                  Lancaster Avenue                                              Aldwyn Lane                                                      Sproul Road                                            Lancaster Avenue                                                      Kenilworth Road
                           Road
                                                                                     Westbound                                                 Northwestbound                                                    Northbound                                                Eastbound                                                          Southeastbound
                        Southbound
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lt                                                     Lt
                Lt        Lt                                                 Lt         Lt                                                Lt       Lt                                                 Lt        Lt                                                    Lt                                                                           Lt
                                                                    App.                                                         App.                                                         App.                                                            App.              o                                             App.     o                                                       App.     Int.
                oL         o                                                 o           o                                                 o       oL                                                 oL         o                                                     o                                                                          oL
 Start Time                                                         Tota                                                         Tota                                                         Tota                                                            Tota              S                                             Tota     S                                                       Tota    Tota
                an        Al                                                 Al         Sp                                                Sp       an                                                 an        Ke                                                    Ke                                                                           an
                                                                       l                                                            l                                                            l                                                               l             Mil                                               l    Mil                                                         l        l
                 c         d                                                 d            r                                                r        c                                                  c         n                                                     n                                                                            c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                      l

07:00 AM        0         0           1      1         0     0 2             0          0            1        0     0     0       1       0        1            0      1         0      0      2      9         0           1         0       0         0 10 0 3 3 0                                          7         0 13 0 0 0 0                                            0         0     0      28
07:15 AM        0         0           5      3         0     0 8             0          0            3        0     0     0       3       0        0            0      0         0      0      0      2         0           0         1       0         0 3 0 5 9 0                                           7         0 21 0 0 0 0                                            0         0     0      35
07:30 AM        2         0           1      1         0     0 4             0          1            5        0     0     0       6       0        2            0      2         0      0      4      2         0           4         0       0         0 6 0 2 3 0                                           4         0 9 0 0 0 0                                             0         0     0      29
07:45 AM        0         0           9      1         0     0 10            0          0            4        0     0     0       4       0        0            0      2         0      0      2      3         0           4         0       0         0 7 0 4 7 0                                           4         0 15 0 0 0 0                                            0         0     0      38
 Tota
       2 0                            16     6 0 0 24 0 1                                            13       0 0 0 14 0 3 0 5 0 0                                                             8      16        0 9 1 0 0 26 0                                                 14          22           0     22        0 58 0 0 0 0 0 0                                                        0      130
     l

08:00 AM        1         0           8      2         0     0 11 0 0 12 0 1                                              0 13 0 0 0                                   2         0      0      2      4         0           1         0       0         0      5      0        6 5 0 5 0                                      16      0           0         0          0        0         0     0      47
08:15 AM        0         0           2      4         0     0 6 0 0 4 0 1                                                0 5 0 2 0                                    2         0      0      4      3         0           0         1       0         0      4      0        4 4 0 6 0                                      14      0           0         0          1        0         0     1      34
08:30 AM        2         0           3      3         0     0 8 0 0 9 0 1                                                0 10 0 1 0                                   2         1      0      4      0         0           5         0       0         0      5      0        1 9 0 2 0                                      12      0           0         0          0        0         0     0      39
08:45 AM        3         0           2      1         0     0 6 0 0 10 0 1                                               0 11 0 0 0                                   0         0      0      0      4         0           1         0       0         0      5      0        3 10 0 2 0                                     15      0           0         0          0        0         0     0      37
 Tota
       6 0                            15     10        0 0 31 0 0                                    35       0 4 0 39 0 3 0 6 1 0 10                                                                 11        0 7 1 0 0 19 0                                                 14          28           0     15        0 57 0 0 0 1 0 0                                                        1      157
     l

     Grand
                8 0                   31     16        0 0 55 0 1                                    48       0 4 0 53 0 6 0                                           11        1 0 18               27        0           16        2 0 0 45 0                               28          50           0     37        0     115     0 0 0 1 0 0                                               1      287
      Total

                14.               56.        29.                                                     90.                                           33.                 61.                                                  35.                                                24.         43.                32.                                                      10
 Apprch %                 0                            0 0                   0          1.9                   0    7.5
                                                                                                                           0               0
                                                                                                                                                                0                5.6
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      60        0                     4.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0      0            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0               0             0 0 0                                     0 0
                 5                     4          1                                                   6                                             3                      1                                                 6                                                  3           5                      2                                                    0

                                  10.                                                                16.                                                                                                                                                                                   17.                12.
 Total %        2.8
                           0
                                             5.6
                                                         0     0
                                                                    19.2     0          0.3                   0    1.4
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                 18.5     0        2.1
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                       3.8       0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                              6.3     9.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.6       0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15.7    0        9.8                      0               0     40.1    0 0 0                            0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3
                                       8                                                              7                                                                                                                                                                                     4                      9




                          North Spring Mill
                                                                                   Lancaster Avenue                                                 Aldwyn Lane                                                      Sproul Road                                           Lancaster Avenue                                                       Kenilworth Road
                               Road
                                                                                      Westbound                                                    Northwestbound                                                    Northbound                                               Eastbound                                                           Southeastbound
                            Southbound
                  L to                                R to                                                 T to          R to                            L to                  R to    R to            L to                       T to      R to                                 L to            T to                                  L to         L to                                R to
                               L to        T to              R to    App.     L to            L to                R to            App.     L to                     T to                       App.                  L to                              R to    App.    L to                                 R to       R to    App.                             T to         R to               App.      Int.
   Start Time     Lan                                 Lan                                                  Lan           SM                              Lan                   SM      Lan             Lan                        SM        Lan                                  SM              Lan                                   SM           Lan                                 Lan
                               Ald         Spr               Ken     Total        Ald         Spr                 Ken             Total    Spr                      Ken                       Total              Ken                                   Ald    Total   Ken                                   Ald        Spr    Total                             Ald          Spr               Total    Total
                      c                                 c                                                    c             ill                             c                     ill     c                  c                       ill       c                                      ill           c                                        ill         c                                 c

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
 07:30 AM 2 0 1 1 0            4 0 1 5 0 0           6 0 2                                                                                                           0          2       0       4       2            0             4         0          0       6      0             2            3          0          4      9        0               0        0            0          0       0      29
 07:45 AM 0 0 9 1 0 10 0 0 4 0 0                     4 0 0                                                                                                           0          2       0       2       3            0             4         0          0       7      0             4            7          0          4     15        0               0        0            0          0       0      38
 08:00 AM 1 0 8 2 0 11 0 0 12 0 1 13 0 0                                                                                                                             0          2       0       2          4         0             1         0          0       5      0             6            5          0          5     16        0               0        0            0          0       0      47
 08:15 AM 0 0 2 4 0            6 0 0 4 0 1           5 0 2                                                                                                           0          2       0       4       3            0             0         1          0       4      0             4            4          0          6     14        0               0        0            1          0       1      34
        Total
                      3         0          20          8      0       31           0           1           25      0      2        28          0          4          0          8       0      12      12             0            9         1          0      22          0     16              19          0         19      54           0           0        0            1          0        1    148
      Volume

 % App. Total     9.7           0          64.5       25.8
                                                               0                   0
                                                                                              3.6          89.3
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                         7.1                   0        33.3
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                               66.7
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       54.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40.9      4.5         0              0         29.6            35.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       35.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0           0         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100         0

   PHF            .375         .000        .556       .500   .000   .705      .000            .250         .521   .000   .500    .538      .000         .500        .000
                                                                                                                                                                               1.00
                                                                                                                                                                                       .000   .750     .750      .000             .563      .250       .000   .786    .000       .667            .679       .000       .792   .844    .000          .000        .000         .250       .000   .250    .787




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       85
                                                                       F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                      105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                     Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster & Ithan Avenues                                                                                                                                            File Name              : 02-30IthanAM
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code              : 00000000
EB Peds = diag peds NE-SW                                                                                                                                            Start Date             : 11/15/2012
WB Peds = diag peds NW-SE                                                                                                                                            Page No                :1
                                                                           Groups Printed- cars - HV
                       Ithan Avenue                             Lancaster Avenue                 Ithan Avenue                                                          Lancaster Avenue
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                      Northbound                                                              Eastbound
                                                                             NW-SE                                                                                                  NE-SW
 Start Time    Left Thru     Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru   Right            Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right   Peds   App. Total    Left Thru         Right            Peds    App. Total     Int. Total
                                                                              Peds                                                                                                   Peds

 07:00 AM        3     19      2       7       31          6   106     2       5        13     132         10       8           1      0       19              5      86      4        0       5       100            282
 07:15 AM        2     29     14       4       49         19   196     3      12         3     233         12      17           5      0       34             14     193      6        0       5       218            534
 07:30 AM        5     48     12       2       67          9   196     6       6         8     225         20      38          18      0       76             22     191     13        1       4       231            599
 07:45 AM        9     62      9       6       86         23   196    13      23         7     262         23      55          21      1      100             20     196      8        0      15       239            687
     Total      19    158     37      19      233         57   694    24      46        31     852         65     118          45      1      229             61     666     31        1      29       788           2102

 08:00 AM        8     38     12       3       61         44   212    15      69         3    343          23      42          23      0       88          20        202      7        0      33       262            754
 08:15 AM        3     66     14       3       86         57   235    10     193        10    505          18      38          12      0       68          26        191      7        0      56       280            939
 08:30 AM        9     37     11       3       60         16   206    15      57        10    304          13      41           8      0       62          22        166      6        0      26       220            646
 08:45 AM        5     19      9       1       34         15   189     6      25         8    243           6      33           9      0       48          33        166      7        0      11       217            542
     Total      25    160     46      10      241        132   842    46     344        31   1395          60     154          52      0      266         101        725     27        0     126       979           2881

 Grand Total    44    318     83      29      474        189 1536      70 390           62   2247         125     272          97      1      495         162 1391            58      1      155     1767            4983
 Apprch %      9.3    67.1   17.5    6.1                 8.4 68.4     3.1 17.4         2.8                25.3    54.9       19.6    0.2                  9.2 78.7           3.3    0.1      8.8
  Total %      0.9    6.4     1.7    0.6      9.5        3.8 30.8     1.4 7.8          1.2    45.1        2.5     5.5         1.9      0      9.9         3.3 27.9           1.2      0      3.1     35.5
      cars      42    307      76     29      454        189 1475      67 390           61   2182         120     266          94      1      481         157 1298            53      1      155     1664            4781
   % cars      95.5   96.5   91.6    100     95.8        100   96    95.7 100         98.4    97.1         96     97.8       96.9    100     97.2         96.9       93.3   91.4    100      100     94.2            95.9
       HV        2     11       7      0       20          0   61       3    0           1      65          5           6       3      0       14               5      93      5      0        0      103             202
    % HV       4.5    3.5     8.4      0      4.2          0    4     4.3    0         1.6     2.9          4         2.2     3.1      0      2.8             3.1     6.7    8.6      0        0      5.8             4.1




                          Ithan Avenue                   Lancaster Avenue                                               Ithan Avenue                                    Lancaster Avenue
                           Southbound                       Westbound                                                    Northbound                                        Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total                             Left         Thru Right App. Total                      Left Thru Right App. Total                    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          5      48      12        65      9     196      6    211                                   20          38       18             76              22     191         13          226                 578
    07:45 AM          9      62       9        80     23     196     13    232                                   23          55       21                 99          20     196         8           224                 635
    08:00 AM          8      38      12        58     44     212     15    271                                23              42      23            88               20     202         7           229                 646
    08:15 AM          3      66      14        83     57     235     10    302                                18              38       12           68               26      191        7           224                 677
 Total Volume        25     214      47       286    133     839     44   1016                                84             173       74          331            88         780       35           903              2536
 % App. Total       8.7    74.8    16.4             13.1    82.6    4.3                                     25.4            52.3     22.4                        9.7        86.4      3.9
          PHF     .694     .811    .839      .861   .583    .893   .733   .841                              .913            .786     .804         .836          .846        .965     .673           .986             .936
          cars       23     205      45       273    133     805     43    981                                79             169       71          319            85         729       32            846             2419
        % cars    92.0     95.8    95.7      95.5    100    95.9   97.7   96.6                              94.0            97.7     95.9         96.4          96.6        93.5     91.4           93.7             95.4
           HV         2       9       2        13      0       34     1     35                                 5               4        3           12             3          51        3             57              117
         % HV       8.0     4.2     4.3       4.5      0      4.1   2.3    3.4                               6.0             2.3      4.1          3.6           3.4         6.5      8.6            6.3              4.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      86
                                                                      F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                     105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                    Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster & Ithan Avenues                                                                                                                                         File Name              : 02-30IthanAM
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code              : 00000000
EB Peds = diag peds NE-SW                                                                                                                                         Start Date             : 11/15/2012
WB Peds = diag peds NW-SE                                                                                                                                         Page No                :1
                                                                            Groups Printed- HV
                     Ithan Avenue                             Lancaster Avenue                Ithan Avenue                                                          Lancaster Avenue
                      Southbound                                 Westbound                     Northbound                                                              Eastbound
                                                                            NW-SE                                                                                                NE-SW
 Start Time    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru    Right            Peds   App. Total   Left Thru       Right     Peds   App. Total   Left Thru         Right               Peds    App. Total     Int. Total
                                                                             Peds                                                                                                 Peds

 07:00 AM        0    0       1      0         1         0     3       0       0        0        3         0        0          0     0           0          0       5       1       0          0          6              10
 07:15 AM        0    1       1      0         2         0     3       0       0        0        3         0        0          0     0           0          0      12       0       0          0         12              17
 07:30 AM        0    6       1      0         7         0     5       1       0        0        6         3        1          1     0           5          1      14       3       0          0         18              36
 07:45 AM        1    0       0      0         1         0    10       0       0        0       10         0        1          1     0           2          1      15       0       0          0         16              29
     Total       1    7       3      0        11         0    21       1       0        0       22         3        2          2     0           7          2      46       4       0          0         52              92

 08:00 AM        0    1       0      0           1       0     7       0       0        0        7         2        1          0     0           3          1      12       0       0          0         13             24
 08:15 AM        1    2       1      0           4       0    12       0       0        0       12         0        1          1     0           2          0      10       0       0          0         10             28
 08:30 AM        0    1       2      0           3       0    15       2       0        0       17         0        1          0     0           1          0      11       0       0          0         11             32
 08:45 AM        0    0       1      0           1       0     6       0       0        1        7         0        1          0     0           1          2      14       1       0          0         17             26
     Total       1    4       4      0           9       0    40       2       0        1       43         2        4          1     0           7          3      47       1       0          0         51            110

 Grand Total     2    11      7      0        20         0    61       3       0        1       65         5        6          3     0        14             5     93       5       0          0       103             202
 Apprch %       10    55     35      0                   0   93.8    4.6       0      1.5                35.7   42.9     21.4        0                     4.9    90.3    4.9       0          0
  Total %        1   5.4    3.5      0       9.9         0   30.2    1.5       0      0.5    32.2        2.5        3     1.5        0       6.9           2.5     46     2.5       0          0         51




                          Ithan Avenue                   Lancaster Avenue                                           Ithan Avenue                                     Lancaster Avenue
                           Southbound                       Westbound                                                Northbound                                         Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total                            Left      Thru Right App. Total                       Left Thru Right App. Total                       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          0       6       1         7      0       5      1      6                                  3         1           1                5           1       14            3            18                  36
    07:45 AM          1       0       0         1      0      10      0     10                                0            1          1               2         1          15        0                16                 29
    08:00 AM          0       1       0         1      0       7      0      7                                2            1          0               3         1          12        0                13                 24
    08:15 AM          1       2       1         4      0      12      0     12                                0            1          1               2         0          10        0                10                 28
 Total Volume         2       9       2        13      0      34      1     35                                5            4          3              12         3          51        3                57                117
 % App. Total     15.4     69.2    15.4                0    97.1    2.9                                    41.7         33.3         25                       5.3        89.5      5.3
          PHF     .500     .375    .500      .464   .000    .708   .250   .729                             .417         1.00       .750         .600         .750        .850     .250              .792               .813




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      87
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                         105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                        Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster Avenue & Lowrys Lane                                                                                                          File Name          : 03-30LowrAM
                                                                                                                                        Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                                        Start Date         : 11/7/2012
                                                                                                                                        Page No            :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Lowrys Lane                          Lancaster Avenue                  Lowrys Lane                                     Lancaster Avenue
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds               App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0     2    1     1          4        2     122    1     2    127      15    15     6    3                   39         1 130      1     1            133           303
  07:15 AM       4     4    3     0         11        3     193    3     0    199      22    14     3    0                   39         0 162      5     0            167           416
  07:30 AM       7   17     4     9         37        6     199    1     1    207       9    25     6    4                   44         2 250      4     1            257           545
  07:45 AM       4   21     7     3         35        6     271    8     0    285       8    34    17    3                   62         7 276      4     0            287           669
      Total     15   44    15    13         87       17     785   13     3    818      54    88    32   10                  184        10 818     14     2            844          1933

  08:00 AM       2    18     4     1        25        3    292     4       0    299    17       28         8       2         55         3    271      8        0      282           661
  08:15 AM       8    14     4     0        26        1    301     9       0    311    12       15         7       6         40         6    238      3        0      247           624
  08:30 AM       4     8     5     1        18        3    230    10       0    243     3       23         8       6         40         3    177      3        0      183           484
  08:45 AM      11     6     2     1        20        2    235     8       1    246     4       11         9       3         27         2    194      3        0      199           492
      Total     25    46    15     3        89        9    1058   31       1   1099    36       77        32      17        162        14    880     17        0      911          2261

 Grand Total 40   90        30    16      176        26    1843    44      4   1917     90 165    64              27        346        24    1698     31     2      1755           4194
  Apprch % 22.7 51.1        17   9.1                1.4    96.1   2.3    0.2            26 47.7 18.5             7.8                  1.4    96.8    1.8   0.1
   Total %    1  2.1       0.7   0.4      4.2       0.6    43.9     1    0.1   45.7    2.1  3.9  1.5             0.6        8.2       0.6    40.5    0.7     0      41.8
       cars  39   88        30    16      173        26    1797    44      4   1871     86 164    63              27        340        24    1639     27     2      1692           4076
    % cars 97.5 97.8       100   100     98.3       100    97.5   100    100   97.6   95.6 99.4 98.4             100       98.3       100    96.5   87.1   100      96.4           97.2
        HV    1    2         0     0        3         0      46     0      0     46      4    1    1               0          6         0      59      4     0        63            118
     % HV   2.5  2.2         0     0      1.7         0     2.5     0      0    2.4    4.4  0.6  1.6               0        1.7         0     3.5   12.9     0       3.6            2.8




                          Lowrys Lane                     Lancaster Avenue                      Lowrys Lane                               Lancaster Avenue
                          Southbound                         Westbound                          Northbound                                   Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total         Left    Thru Right             App. Total     Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          7      17       4        28       6     199      1    206             9        25          6            40        2      250         4        256              530
    07:45 AM          4      21       7        32       6     271      8    285             8        34         17            59        7      276         4        287              663
    08:00 AM          2      18       4        24       3     292      4    299          17        28             8          53          3     271         8        282             658
    08:15 AM          8      14       4        26       1     301      9    311          12        15             7          34          6     238        3         247             618
 Total Volume        21      70      19       110      16 1063        22   1101          46       102            38         186         18    1035       19        1072            2469
 % App. Total     19.1     63.6    17.3               1.5    96.5      2               24.7      54.8          20.4                    1.7    96.5      1.8
          PHF     .656     .833    .679      .859   .667     .883   .611   .885        .676      .750          .559        .788       .643    .938     .594        .934            .931
          cars       20      68      19       107      16 1038        22   1076          42       102            37         181         18    1009       16        1043            2407
        % cars    95.2     97.1     100      97.3    100     97.6    100   97.7        91.3       100          97.4        97.3        100    97.5     84.2        97.3            97.5
           HV         1       2       0         3       0       25     0     25           4         0             1           5          0      26        3          29              62
         % HV       4.8     2.9       0       2.7       0      2.4     0    2.3         8.7         0           2.6         2.7          0     2.5     15.8         2.7             2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                    88
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                         105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                        Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster Avenue & Lowrys Lane                                                                                                        File Name            : 03-30LowrAM
                                                                                                                                      Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                                      Start Date           : 11/7/2012
                                                                                                                                      Page No              :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Lowrys Lane                          Lancaster Avenue                  Lowrys Lane                                   Lancaster Avenue
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds             App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0                    0       0     7    0     0                 7             7
  07:15 AM       0     0    0     0           0       0       5    0     0        5     0     0    0     0                    0       0     5    1     0                 6            11
  07:30 AM       1     1    0     0           2       0       4    0     0        4     0     0    0     0                    0       0     2    0     0                 2             8
  07:45 AM       0     0    0     0           0       0       6    0     0        6     0     0    0     0                    0       0   13     2     0                15            21
      Total      1     1    0     0           2       0      15    0     0       15     0     0    0     0                    0       0   27     3     0                30            47

  08:00 AM       0     0     0     0          0       0       5     0      0      5    0       0      0          0            0       0      4        0        0         4             9
  08:15 AM       0     1     0     0          1       0      10     0      0     10    4       0      1          0            5       0      7        1        0         8            24
  08:30 AM       0     0     0     0          0       0       7     0      0      7    0       1      0          0            1       0     12        0        0        12            20
  08:45 AM       0     0     0     0          0       0       9     0      0      9    0       0      0          0            0       0      9        0        0         9            18
      Total      0     1     0     0          1       0      31     0      0     31    4       1      1          0            6       0     32        1        0        33            71

 Grand Total      1    2     0     0          3       0     46      0      0     46    4    1    1               0            6       0   59           4       0        63          118
  Apprch %     33.3 66.7     0     0                  0    100      0      0        66.7 16.7 16.7               0                    0 93.7         6.3       0
   Total %      0.8  1.7     0     0       2.5        0     39      0      0     39  3.4  0.8  0.8               0         5.1        0   50         3.4       0     53.4




                          Lowrys Lane                    Lancaster Avenue                      Lowrys Lane                              Lancaster Avenue
                          Southbound                        Westbound                          Northbound                                  Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left    Thru Right            App. Total     Left Thru Right App. Total                  Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          1       1       0         2      0       4      0      4             0      0         0                 0        0         2         0            2               8
    07:45 AM          0       0       0         0      0       6      0      6             0      0         0                 0        0      13           2          15               21
    08:00 AM          0       0       0         0      0       5      0      5             0      0         0                 0        0        4         0            4                9
    08:15 AM          0       1       0         1      0      10      0     10             4      0         1                 5        0        7         1            8               24
 Total Volume         1       2       0         3      0      25      0     25           4        0          1                5        0       26         3           29               62
 % App. Total     33.3     66.7       0                0     100      0                 80        0         20                         0     89.7      10.3
          PHF     .250     .500    .000      .375   .000    .625   .000   .625        .250     .000       .250           .250       .000     .500      .375        .483             .646




                                                                                                                                                                                    89
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster & Garrett Avenues                                                                                           File Name     : 04-30GarAM
                                                                                                                      Site Code     : 21102771
                                                                                                                      Start Date    : 11/7/2012
                                                                                                                      Page No       :1
                                                                Groups Printed- cars - HV
                            Lancaster Avenue                           Garrett Avenue                            Lancaster Avenue
                               Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
       Start Time      Left   Thru    Peds App. Total            Left   Right    Peds App. Total        Thru       Right   Peds App. Total      Int. Total
        07:00 AM         3       0       0         3               0       5         1        6            0          4       0         4              13
        07:15 AM         0       0       0         0               0       3         0        3            0          5       0         5               8
        07:30 AM         3       0       0         3               0       3         4        7            0          9       0         9              19
        07:45 AM         8       0       1         9               0       7         6       13            0          4       0         4              26
             Total      14       0       1        15               0      18        11       29            0         22       0        22              66

        08:00 AM          4         0        0           4         1           10            4    15      0           4       0             4          23
        08:15 AM          4         0        0           4         0            5            6    11      0           7       0             7          22
        08:30 AM          2         0        0           2         1            6            4    11      0           3       0             3          16
        08:45 AM          4         0        0           4         2           12            2    16      0          12       0            12          32
            Total        14         0        0          14         4           33           16    53      0          26       0            26          93

      Grand Total       28          0        1          29         4           51       27        82      0         48        0            48        159
       Apprch %        96.6         0      3.4                   4.9          62.2     32.9               0        100        0
         Total %       17.6         0      0.6        18.2       2.5          32.1      17       51.6     0        30.2       0       30.2
            cars        28          0        1         29          4           51       27        82      0         48        0        48            159
          % cars       100          0      100        100        100          100      100       100      0        100        0       100            100
             HV           0         0        0           0         0             0        0         0     0           0       0          0             0
           % HV           0         0        0           0         0             0        0         0     0           0       0          0             0




                                  Lancaster Avenue                          Garrett Avenue                  Lancaster Avenue
                                     Westbound                               Northbound                        Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Thru     App. Total          Left      Right     App. Total    Thru     Right    App. Total           Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM             3           0             3             0             3          3         0            9           9                15
             07:45 AM             8           0             8             0             7          7         0            4           4                19
             08:00 AM             4           0             4             1            10         11         0            4           4                19
             08:15 AM             4           0             4             0             5          5         0            7           7                16
        Total Volume             19           0            19             1            25         26         0           24          24                69
         % App. Total           100           0                         3.8          96.2                    0          100
                  PHF          .594        .000          .594          .250          .625        .591     .000         .667         .667             .908
                   cars          19           0            19             1            25          26        0           24           24               69
                % cars          100           0           100           100           100         100        0          100          100              100
                    HV            0           0             0             0             0           0        0            0            0                0
                 % HV             0           0             0             0             0           0        0            0            0                0




                                                                                                                                                    90
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster & Garrett Avenues                                                                                         File Name     : 04-30GarAM
                                                                                                                    Site Code     : 21102771
                                                                                                                    Start Date    : 11/7/2012
                                                                                                                    Page No       :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- HV
                              Lancaster Avenue                        Garrett Avenue                           Lancaster Avenue
                                 Westbound                              Northbound                                Eastbound
       Start Time      Left     Thru    Peds App. Total         Left   Right    Peds App. Total        Thru      Right   Peds App. Total    Int. Total
        07:00 AM         0         0       0         0            0       0        0         0            0         0       0         0             0
        07:15 AM         0         0       0         0            0       0        0         0            0         0       0         0             0
        07:30 AM         0         0       0         0            0       0        0         0            0         0       0         0             0
        07:45 AM         0         0       0         0            0       0        0         0            0         0       0         0             0
             Total       0         0       0         0            0       0        0         0            0         0       0         0             0

        08:00 AM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0         0      0          0       0           0            0
        08:15 AM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0         0      0          0       0           0            0
        08:30 AM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0         0      0          0       0           0            0
        08:45 AM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0         0      0          0       0           0            0
            Total         0         0        0           0        0          0          0         0      0          0       0           0            0

      Grand Total         0         0        0           0        0          0          0         0      0          0       0           0            0
       Apprch %           0         0        0                    0          0          0                0          0       0
         Total %




                                  Lancaster Avenue                         Garrett Avenue                  Lancaster Avenue
                                     Westbound                              Northbound                        Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Thru     App. Total         Left      Right     App. Total    Thru     Right    App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM             0           0            0             0          0             0        0            0           0                0
             07:45 AM             0           0            0             0          0             0        0            0           0                0
             08:00 AM             0           0            0             0          0             0        0            0           0                0
             08:15 AM             0           0            0             0          0             0        0            0           0                0
        Total Volume              0           0            0             0          0             0        0            0           0                0
        % App. Total              0           0                          0          0                      0            0
                  PHF          .000        .000         .000          .000       .000          .000     .000         .000        .000            .000




                                                                                                                                                91
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                          105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                         Philadelphia, PA 19147


Sproul & Conestoga Roads                                                                                                                    File Name           : 05-SprConAM
                                                                                                                                            Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                            Start Date          : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                            Page No             :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Sproul Road                          Conestoga Road                     Sproul Road                                        Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                           Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds          App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM      10   30     7     0        47         0     98    17     0    115      36    51     4    0                       91        25   65     8     0              98           351
  07:15 AM      15   26    22     0        63         6    127    20     0    153      61    57     4    0                      122        21 110     17     1             149           487
  07:30 AM      19   45    17     0        81        17    137    11     0    165      64    60     7    0                      131        30 150     29     0             209           586
  07:45 AM      12   62    20     0        94         7    158    11     0    176      48    71    11    0                      130        37 161     41     0             239           639
      Total     56 163     66     0       285        30    520    59     0    609 209 239          26    0                      474       113 486     95     1             695          2063

  08:00 AM      12    48    14     0       74         4    157     14       0    175    48       65         2          0        115        45    127      40        0      212           576
  08:15 AM      12    41    22     0       75         7    137     20       0    164    49       66         7          0        122        34    104      25        0      163           524
  08:30 AM       6    42    22     0       70         3    143     15       0    161    49       58         7          0        114        28     94      24        0      146           491
  08:45 AM      12    37    25     0       74         8    134     10       0    152    64       72        11          0        147        39    107      27        0      173           546
      Total     42   168    83     0      293        22    571     59       0    652   210      261        27          0        498       146    432     116        0      694          2137

 Grand Total 98 331 149            0      578         52   1091    118      0   1261    419 500    53                  0        972        259 918 211            1      1389           4200
  Apprch %   17 57.3 25.8          0                 4.1   86.5    9.4      0          43.1 51.4  5.5                  0                  18.6 66.1 15.2        0.1
   Total %  2.3  7.9  3.5          0     13.8        1.2     26    2.8      0     30     10 11.9  1.3                  0       23.1        6.2 21.9    5          0      33.1
       cars  77 307 134            0      518         46   1067    108      0   1221    408 464    48                  0        920        246 900 199            1      1346           4005
    % cars 78.6 92.7 89.9          0     89.6       88.5   97.8   91.5      0   96.8   97.4 92.8 90.6                  0       94.7         95   98 94.3        100      96.9           95.4
        HV   21   24   15          0       60          6     24     10      0     40     11   36    5                  0         52         13   18   12          0        43            195
     % HV 21.4   7.3 10.1          0     10.4       11.5    2.2    8.5      0    3.2    2.6  7.2  9.4                  0        5.3          5    2  5.7          0       3.1            4.6




                          Sproul Road                     Conestoga Road                         Sproul Road                                   Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                        Westbound                            Northbound                                      Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total          Left    Thru Right                App. Total      Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM        19       45      17        81      17    137    11    165             64          60          7             131         30    150          29        209              586
    07:45 AM        12       62      20        94       7    158    11    176             48          71         11             130         37     161         41        239              639
    08:00 AM        12       48      14        74       4    157    14    175             48        65             2            115         45     127       40          212             576
    08:15 AM        12       41      22        75       7    137    20    164             49        66             7            122         34     104       25          163             524
 Total Volume       55      196      73       324      35    589    56    680            209       262            27            498        146     542      135          823            2325
 % App. Total       17     60.5    22.5               5.1   86.6   8.2                    42      52.6           5.4                      17.7    65.9     16.4
          PHF     .724     .790    .830      .862   .515    .932  .700   .966           .816      .923          .614           .950       .811    .842     .823         .861            .910
          cars      44      180      70       294      31    574    54    659            201       245            24            470        139     527      125          791            2214
        % cars    80.0     91.8    95.9      90.7   88.6    97.5  96.4   96.9           96.2      93.5          88.9           94.4       95.2    97.2     92.6         96.1            95.2
           HV       11       16       3        30       4      15    2      21             8        17             3             28          7      15       10           32             111
         % HV     20.0      8.2     4.1       9.3   11.4      2.5  3.6     3.1           3.8       6.5          11.1            5.6        4.8     2.8      7.4          3.9             4.8




                                                                                                                                                                                         92
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                         105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                        Philadelphia, PA 19147


Sproul & Conestoga Roads                                                                                                                 File Name         : 05-SprConAM
                                                                                                                                         Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                         Start Date        : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                         Page No           :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Sproul Road                          Conestoga Road                     Sproul Road                                      Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                         Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                 App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       3     1    3     0          7        0       4    4     0        8     0     4     1    0                       5        3     0    0     0             3           23
  07:15 AM       4     3    7     0         14        1       0    2     0        3     2     1     0    0                       3        0     1    1     0             2           22
  07:30 AM       2     3    1     0          6        1       7    0     0        8     2     3     1    0                       6        4   10     3     0            17           37
  07:45 AM       2     6    1     0          9        2       3    1     0        6     1     4     1    0                       6        2     2    3     0             7           28
      Total     11   13    12     0         36        4     14     7     0       25     5    12     3    0                      20        9   13     7     0            29          110

  08:00 AM       2     4     1     0         7        1      3     1       0      5    1        4        0           0           5        0      2     3       0         5            22
  08:15 AM       5     3     0     0         8        0      2     0       0      2    4        6        1           0          11        1      1     1       0         3            24
  08:30 AM       2     2     1     0         5        0      5     1       0      6    1        5        0           0           6        1      2     1       0         4            21
  08:45 AM       1     2     1     0         4        1      0     1       0      2    0        9        1           0          10        2      0     0       0         2            18
      Total     10    11     3     0        24        2     10     3       0     15    6       24        2           0          32        4      5     5       0        14            85

 Grand Total     21   24    15     0        60        6   24      10       0     40   11   36             5          0          52  13   18   12               0        43          195
  Apprch %       35   40    25     0                 15   60      25       0        21.2 69.2           9.6          0            30.2 41.9 27.9               0
   Total %     10.8 12.3   7.7     0     30.8       3.1 12.3      5.1      0   20.5  5.6 18.5           2.6          0       26.7  6.7  9.2  6.2               0     22.1




                          Sproul Road                    Conestoga Road                        Sproul Road                                  Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                                     Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left    Thru Right                App. Total     Left Thru Right App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          2       3       1         6      1      7     0        8             2        3           1                 6       4      10        3          17               37
    07:45 AM          2       6       1         9      2      3     1        6             1        4            1                6        2       2      3            7              28
    08:00 AM          2       4       1         7      1      3     1        5             1        4            0                5        0       2      3            5              22
    08:15 AM          5       3       0         8      0      2     0        2             4        6            1              11         1       1      1            3              24
 Total Volume       11       16       3        30      4     15     2      21            8        17             3              28         7      15     10           32             111
 % App. Total     36.7     53.3      10               19   71.4   9.5                 28.6      60.7          10.7                      21.9    46.9   31.2
          PHF     .550     .667    .750      .833   .500   .536  .500    .656         .500      .708          .750           .636       .438    .375   .833        .471             .750




                                                                                                                                                                                    93
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga & Spring Mill Roads                                                                                  File Name       : 06-ConSpMAM
                                                                                                               Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                               Start Date      : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                               Page No         :1
                                                                Groups Printed- cars - HV
                              Spring Mill Road                        Conestoga Road                          Conestoga Road
                                Southbound                               Westbound                              Eastbound
       Start Time      Left    Right     Peds App. Total        Thru    Right    Peds App. Total      Left     Thru    Peds App. Total   Int. Total
        07:00 AM         0         2        0         2          114        0        0      114         0        76       0        76          192
        07:15 AM         2         5        0         7          146        1        0      147         1       136       0       137          291
        07:30 AM         1         3        0         4          167        0        0      167         0       176       0       176          347
        07:45 AM         1         1        0         2          183        1        0      184         1       198       0       199          385
             Total       4        11        0        15          610        2        0      612         2       586       0       588         1215

        08:00 AM          0         3        0           3       172           2           0   174      1       136        0       137        314
        08:15 AM          2         1        0           3       156           0           0   156      0       115        0       115        274
        08:30 AM          1         2        0           3       166           1           0   167      0       111        0       111        281
        08:45 AM          1         3        0           4       147           1           0   148      1       132        0       133        285
            Total         4         9        0          13       641           4           0   645      2       494        0       496       1154

      Grand Total         8      20          0          28      1251            6          0   1257     4      1080        0     1084        2369
       Apprch %        28.6     71.4         0                  99.5          0.5          0          0.4      99.6        0
         Total %        0.3      0.8         0         1.2      52.8          0.3          0   53.1   0.2      45.6        0     45.8
            cars          8      18          0         26       1213            6          0   1219     4      1041        0     1045        2290
          % cars       100       90          0        92.9        97          100          0     97   100      96.4        0     96.4        96.7
             HV           0        2         0           2        38            0          0     38     0        39        0       39          79
           % HV           0      10          0         7.1         3            0          0      3     0       3.6        0      3.6         3.3




                                   Spring Mill Road                     Conestoga Road                     Conestoga Road
                                     Southbound                           Westbound                          Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Right    App. Total       Thru     Right   App. Total         Left     Thru   App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM             1           3             4           167            0       167        0         176         176           347
             07:45 AM             1           1             2           183            1       184        1         198         199           385
             08:00 AM             0           3             3           172            2       174        1         136         137           314
             08:15 AM             2           1             3           156            0       156        0         115         115           274
        Total Volume              4           8            12           678            3       681        2         625         627          1320
         % App. Total          33.3        66.7                        99.6          0.4                0.3        99.7
                  PHF          .500        .667          .750          .926         .375       .925    .500        .789         .788         .857
                   cars           4           8            12           656            3        659       2         599          601         1272
                % cars          100         100           100          96.8          100       96.8     100        95.8         95.9         96.4
                    HV            0           0             0            22            0         22       0           26          26           48
                 % HV             0           0             0           3.2            0        3.2       0          4.2         4.1          3.6




                                                                                                                                             94
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga & Spring Mill Roads                                                                                File Name      : 06-ConSpMAM
                                                                                                             Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                             Start Date     : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                             Page No        :1
                                                                   Groups Printed- HV
                              Spring Mill Road                        Conestoga Road                        Conestoga Road
                                Southbound                               Westbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time      Left    Right     Peds App. Total        Thru    Right    Peds App. Total    Left     Thru    Peds App. Total      Int. Total
        07:00 AM         0         0        0         0            6       0        0         6       0         3       0         3               9
        07:15 AM         0         1        0         1            2       0        0         2       0         5       0         5               8
        07:30 AM         0         0        0         0            9       0        0         9       0        11       0        11              20
        07:45 AM         0         0        0         0            6       0        0         6       0         5       0         5              11
             Total       0         1        0         1           23       0        0        23       0        24       0        24              48

        08:00 AM          0         0        0           0        6           0          0     6      0         2       0             2           8
        08:15 AM          0         0        0           0        1           0          0     1      0         8       0             8           9
        08:30 AM          0         1        0           1        7           0          0     7      0         3       0             3          11
        08:45 AM          0         0        0           0        1           0          0     1      0         2       0             2           3
            Total         0         1        0           1       15           0          0    15      0        15       0            15          31

      Grand Total         0        2         0           2       38           0          0    38      0       39        0            39          79
       Apprch %           0      100         0                  100           0          0            0      100        0
         Total %          0      2.5         0         2.5      48.1          0          0   48.1     0      49.4       0       49.4




                                   Spring Mill Road                    Conestoga Road                    Conestoga Road
                                     Southbound                          Westbound                         Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Right    App. Total      Thru     Right   App. Total        Left     Thru   App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM             0           0             0             9          0         9        0          11          11                20
             07:45 AM             0           0             0             6          0         6        0           5           5                11
             08:00 AM             0           0             0             6          0         6        0           2           2                 8
             08:15 AM             0           0             0             1          0         1        0           8           8                 9
        Total Volume              0           0             0            22          0        22        0          26          26                48
         % App. Total             0           0                         100          0                  0         100
                  PHF          .000        .000          .000          .611       .000       .611    .000        .591         .591             .600




                                                                                                                                              95
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Ithan Avenue                                                                                                            File Name           : 07-ConIthAM
                                                                                                                                         Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                         Start Date          : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                         Page No             :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Ithan Avenue                         Conestoga Road                    Ithan Avenue                                    Conestoga Road
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds               App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       2     0    7     0         9         0     83     5     0       88     1     8     1    0                   10        18   54     0     2           74           181
  07:15 AM       9     2   21     0        32         0     89    16     0    105       4    14     1    0                   19        41   83     0     0          124           280
  07:30 AM      13   12    26     0        51         0    113    25     0    138       0    39     1    0                   40        53   96     0     0          149           378
  07:45 AM      19   16    47     0        82         1    112    54     1    168       2    60     4    0                   66        46 116      2     0          164           480
      Total     43   30 101       0       174         1    397 100       1    499       7 121       7    0                  135       158 349      2     2          511          1319

  08:00 AM      22    16    42     0       80         1    116    25      0    142     9       33         3          0       45        31     77     0       0      108           375
  08:15 AM       7     7    21     0       35         0    102    21      0    123     3       21         4          0       28        32     93     0       0      125           311
  08:30 AM       3     2    14     0       19         0    113    13      0    126     0       16         1          0       17        30     81     1       0      112           274
  08:45 AM       5     3    15     0       23         4    100    13      0    117     0       17         2          1       20        35     96     0       0      131           291
      Total     37    28    92     0      157         5    431    72      0    508    12       87        10          1      110       128    347     1       0      476          1251

 Grand Total 80   58 193           0      331         6 828 172           1   1007     19 208    17               1         245        286 696     3       2        987          2570
  Apprch % 24.2 17.5 58.3          0                0.6 82.2 17.1       0.1           7.8 84.9  6.9             0.4                     29 70.5  0.3     0.2
   Total %  3.1  2.3  7.5          0     12.9       0.2 32.2  6.7         0   39.2    0.7  8.1  0.7               0         9.5       11.1 27.1  0.1     0.1       38.4
       cars  78   50 185           0      313         6 800 167           1    974     18 201    15               1         235        269 676     2       2        949          2471
    % cars 97.5 86.2 95.9          0     94.6       100 96.6 97.1       100   96.7   94.7 96.6 88.2             100        95.9       94.1 97.1 66.7     100       96.1          96.1
        HV    2    8    8          0       18         0   28    5         0     33      1    7    2               0          10         17   20    1       0         38            99
     % HV   2.5 13.8  4.1          0      5.4         0  3.4  2.9         0    3.3    5.3  3.4 11.8               0         4.1        5.9  2.9 33.3       0        3.9           3.9




                          Ithan Avenue                    Conestoga Road                       Ithan Avenue                                Conestoga Road
                           Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                                   Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left     Thru Right App. Total                  Left Thru Right App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM         13      12      26        51       0    113    25    138              0        39          1             40        53     96        0        149              378
    07:45 AM         19      16      47        82       1    112    54    167              2        60          4             66        46     116       2        164              479
    08:00 AM         22      16      42        80       1    116    25    142              9      33             3           45         31      77      0         108             375
    08:15 AM          7       7      21        35       0    102    21    123            3        21             4           28         32      93      0         125             311
 Total Volume        61      51     136       248       2    443   125    570           14       153            12          179        162     382      2         546            1543
 % App. Total     24.6     20.6    54.8               0.4   77.7  21.9                 7.8      85.5           6.7                    29.7      70    0.4
          PHF     .693     .797    .723      .756   .500    .955  .579   .853         .389      .638          .750         .678       .764    .823   .250        .832            .805
          cars       60      43     130       233       2    428   122    552           14       146            10          170        152     368      1         521            1476
        % cars    98.4     84.3    95.6      94.0    100    96.6  97.6   96.8          100      95.4          83.3         95.0       93.8    96.3   50.0        95.4            95.7
           HV         1       8       6        15       0      15    3      18           0         7             2            9         10      14      1          25              67
         % HV       1.6    15.7     4.4       6.0       0     3.4  2.4     3.2           0       4.6          16.7          5.0        6.2     3.7   50.0         4.6             4.3




                                                                                                                                                                                  96
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Ithan Avenue                                                                                                          File Name               : 07-ConIthAM
                                                                                                                                       Site Code               : 00000000
                                                                                                                                       Start Date              : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                       Page No                 :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Ithan Avenue                         Conestoga Road                    Ithan Avenue                                  Conestoga Road
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds             App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0     0    2     0          2        0       2    1     0        3     1     0     0    0                    1       1     2    0     0                 3             9
  07:15 AM       0     0    0     0          0        0       3    0     0        3     0     0     0    0                    0       1     2    0     0                 3             6
  07:30 AM       0     2    2     0          4        0       5    1     0        6     0     4     0    0                    4       5     9    0     0                14            28
  07:45 AM       0     4    3     0          7        0       2    1     0        3     0     2     0    0                    2       3     1    1     0                 5            17
      Total      0     6    7     0         13        0     12     3     0       15     1     6     0    0                    7      10   14     1     0                25            60

  08:00 AM       1     1     1     0          3       0      7     1      0      8     0      1        0           0          1       1      1        0        0         2            14
  08:15 AM       0     1     0     0          1       0      1     0      0      1     0      0        2           0          2       1      3        0        0         4             8
  08:30 AM       0     0     0     0          0       0      6     1      0      7     0      0        0           0          0       4      1        0        0         5            12
  08:45 AM       1     0     0     0          1       0      2     0      0      2     0      0        0           0          0       1      1        0        0         2             5
      Total      2     2     1     0          5       0     16     2      0     18     0      1        2           0          3       7      6        0        0        13            39

 Grand Total      2    8    8      0        18        0   28    5         0     33    1        7        2          0        10  17   20                1       0        38            99
  Apprch %     11.1 44.4 44.4      0                  0 84.8 15.2         0          10       70       20          0          44.7 52.6              2.6       0
   Total %        2  8.1  8.1      0     18.2         0 28.3  5.1         0   33.3    1      7.1        2          0     10.1 17.2 20.2                1       0     38.4




                          Ithan Avenue                   Conestoga Road                       Ithan Avenue                              Conestoga Road
                           Southbound                      Westbound                           Northbound                                 Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left     Thru Right App. Total                Left Thru Right App. Total                  Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          0       2       2         4      0      5     1        6           0         4          0               4       5          9         0          14               28
    07:45 AM          0       4       3         7      0      2     1        3           0       2            0               2        3       1           1           5               17
    08:00 AM          1       1       1         3      0      7     1        8           0       1            0               1        1       1          0            2               14
    08:15 AM          0       1       0         1      0      1     0        1           0       0            2               2        1       3          0            4                8
 Total Volume         1       8       6        15      0     15     3      18            0       7             2              9       10      14          1           25               67
 % App. Total       6.7    53.3      40                0   83.3  16.7                    0    77.8          22.2                      40      56          4
          PHF     .250     .500    .500      .536   .000   .536  .750    .563         .000    .438          .250         .563       .500    .389       .250        .446             .598




                                                                                                                                                                                    97
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Lowrys Lane/Strathmore                                                                                             File Name           : 08-ConLowAM
Drive                                                                                                                               Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                    Start Date          : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                    Page No             :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Lowrys Lane                          Conestoga Road                  Strathmore Drive                               Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds            App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       1     5    6     1         13        2     76     0     0       78     5     4     4    2                 15        3   54     0     1             58           164
  07:15 AM       0     3    8     1         12        1     99     3     1    104      11     1     0    0                 12        5   83     5     1             94           222
  07:30 AM       0     5   19     0         24        4     98     0     1    103       5     2     3    2                 12        7   94     7     3            111           250
  07:45 AM       0     3   32     0         35        4    133     1     0    138       3     5     3    0                 11       18 127      5     0            150           334
      Total      1   16    65     2         84       11    406     4     2    423      24    12    10    4                 50       33 358     17     5            413           970

  08:00 AM       1     5    16     1        23        1    105     2      1    109     3       3       3          0         9       11     99      2        0      112           253
  08:15 AM       1     2    14     0        17        0    111     2      0    113     2       4       3          0         9       10     95      0        0      105           244
  08:30 AM       2     6    15     0        23        2    103     2      0    107     6       0       2          0         8        9     74      3        0       86           224
  08:45 AM       2     4     7     2        15        5     92     3      1    101     5       2       1          1         9        7    101      3        1      112           237
      Total      6    17    52     3        78        8    411     9      2    430    16       9       9          1        35       37    369      8        1      415           958

 Grand Total     7   33 117        5      162        19 817       13      4    853     40   21   19            5           85        70 727        25     6        828          1928
  Apprch %     4.3 20.4 72.2     3.1                2.2 95.8     1.5    0.5          47.1 24.7 22.4          5.9                    8.5 87.8        3   0.7
   Total %     0.4  1.7  6.1     0.3      8.4         1 42.4     0.7    0.2   44.2    2.1  1.1    1          0.3         4.4        3.6 37.7      1.3   0.3       42.9
       cars      7   32 113        5      157        19 795       13      4    831     39   20   18            5         82          67 712        19     6        804          1874
    % cars     100   97 96.6     100     96.9       100 97.3     100    100   97.4   97.5 95.2 94.7          100        96.5       95.7 97.9       76   100       97.1          97.2
        HV       0    1    4       0        5         0   22       0      0     22      1    1    1            0           3          3   15        6     0         24            54
     % HV        0    3  3.4       0      3.1         0  2.7       0      0    2.6    2.5  4.8  5.3            0         3.5        4.3  2.1       24     0        2.9           2.8




                          Lowrys Lane                    Conestoga Road                    Strathmore Drive                             Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                         Northbound                                   Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total                   Left Thru Right App. Total               Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          0       5      19        24      4      98    0     102              5       2         3             10         7     94          7        108              244
    07:45 AM          0       3      32        35      4    133     1     138            3         5          3            11        18     127        5         150              334
    08:00 AM          1       5      16        22      1    105     2     108            3        3           3             9        11      99        2         112             251
    08:15 AM          1       2      14        17      0    111     2     113            2        4           3             9        10      95        0         105             244
 Total Volume         2      15      81        98      9    447     5     461           13       14          12            39        46     415       14         475            1073
 % App. Total         2    15.3    82.7                2      97  1.1                 33.3     35.9        30.8                     9.7    87.4      2.9
          PHF     .500     .750    .633      .700   .563   .840  .625    .835         .650     .700        1.00         .886       .639    .817     .500        .792            .803
          cars        2      14      79        95      9    435     5     449           12       13          12           37         45     406       10         461            1042
        % cars     100     93.3    97.5      96.9    100   97.3   100    97.4         92.3     92.9         100         94.9       97.8    97.8     71.4        97.1            97.1
           HV         0       1       2         3      0      12    0       12           1        1           0            2          1       9        4          14              31
         % HV         0     6.7     2.5       3.1      0     2.7    0      2.6         7.7      7.1           0          5.1        2.2     2.2     28.6         2.9             2.9




                                                                                                                                                                                 98
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Lowrys Lane/Strathmore                                                                                            File Name           : 08-ConLowAM
Drive                                                                                                                              Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date          : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                   Page No             :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Lowrys Lane                          Conestoga Road                  Strathmore Drive                              Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0     0    0     0           0       0       2    0     0        2     0     0    1     0                  1       0     3    0     0               3             6
  07:15 AM       0     0    0     0           0       0       3    0     0        3     0     0    0     0                  0       1     0    1     0               2             5
  07:30 AM       0     0    1     0           1       0       4    0     0        4     0     0    0     0                  0       0     4    3     0               7            12
  07:45 AM       0     1    0     0           1       0       4    0     0        4     0     0    0     0                  0       0     3    0     0               3             8
      Total      0     1    1     0           2       0     13     0     0       13     0     0    1     0                  1       1   10     4     0              15            31

  08:00 AM       0     0     1     0          1       0      4     0      0      4    1       0       0          0          1       1      1       1       0            3          9
  08:15 AM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0    0       1       0          0          1       0      1       0       0            1          2
  08:30 AM       0     0     2     0          2       0      2     0      0      2    0       0       0          0          0       1      1       1       0            3          7
  08:45 AM       0     0     0     0          0       0      3     0      0      3    0       0       0          0          0       0      2       0       0            2          5
      Total      0     0     3     0          3       0      9     0      0      9    1       1       0          0          2       2      5       2       0            9         23

 Grand Total     0     1     4     0          5       0   22       0      0     22    1    1    1                0          3   3   15    6                0        24            54
  Apprch %       0    20    80     0                  0 100        0      0        33.3 33.3 33.3                0           12.5 62.5   25                0
   Total %       0   1.9   7.4     0       9.3        0 40.7       0      0   40.7  1.9  1.9  1.9                0       5.6  5.6 27.8 11.1                0     44.4




                          Lowrys Lane                    Conestoga Road                   Strathmore Drive                            Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                        Northbound                                  Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left Thru Right App. Total                  Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          0       0       1         1      0      4     0        4            0       0          0              0       0          4       3            7              12
    07:45 AM          0       1       0         1      0      4     0        4            0       0          0              0       0        3        0            3                8
    08:00 AM          0       0       1         1      0      4     0        4            1       0          0              1       1        1        1            3                9
    08:15 AM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0          0         1          0              1        0       1        0            1                2
 Total Volume         0       1       2         3      0     12     0      12           1        1           0              2        1       9        4           14               31
 % App. Total         0    33.3    66.7                0    100     0                  50       50           0                     7.1    64.3     28.6
          PHF     .000     .250    .500      .750   .000   .750  .000    .750        .250     .250        .000         .500       .250    .563     .333        .500             .646




                                                                                                                                                                                99
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Garrett Avenue/                                                                                                    File Name           : 09-ConGarAM
Williams Road                                                                                                                       Site Code           : 21102701
                                                                                                                                    Start Date          : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                    Page No             :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                     Garrett Avenue                        Conestoga Road                   Williams Road                                 Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds            App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       1     0    5     1          7        0     63     1     3       67     3     1    0     0                  4        3   62     1     0             66           144
  07:15 AM       6     2    5     2         15        0    102     2     0    104       4     2    2     0                  8        3   87     0     0             90           217
  07:30 AM       5     1    7     0         13        3     98     1     2    104       2     2    3     3                 10        1 102      0     0            103           230
  07:45 AM       3     2    7     0         12        0    116     1     1    118       2     1    2     0                  5       11 125      0     1            137           272
      Total     15     5   24     3         47        3    379     5     6    393      11     6    7     3                 27       18 376      1     1            396           863

  08:00 AM       3     0    13     1        17        1     94     1      1     97     1       1       2          1         5        5    110      0        0      115           234
  08:15 AM       4     0    10     0        14        0    102     1      1    104     1       2       2          0         5        8     94      1        2      105           228
  08:30 AM       7     1     2     0        10        1     91     1      0     93     1       4       4          1        10        7     80      0        1       88           201
  08:45 AM       7     1     5     0        13        1     92     5      0     98     2       1       1          1         5        7    106      2        0      115           231
      Total     21     2    30     1        54        3    379     8      2    392     5       8       9          3        25       27    390      3        3      423           894

 Grand Total 36        7   54      4      101         6 758       13      8    785     16   14   16    6                   52       45 766          4     4        819          1757
  Apprch % 35.6      6.9 53.5      4                0.8 96.6     1.7      1          30.8 26.9 30.8 11.5                           5.5 93.5       0.5   0.5
   Total %    2      0.4  3.1    0.2      5.7       0.3 43.1     0.7    0.5   44.7    0.9  0.8  0.9  0.3                   3       2.6 43.6       0.2   0.2       46.6
       cars  36        7   54      4      101         6 758       13      8    785     16   14   16    6                  52        45 766          4     4        819          1757
    % cars 100       100 100     100      100       100 100      100    100    100    100 100 100 100                    100       100 100        100   100        100           100
        HV    0        0    0      0        0         0    0       0      0      0      0    0    0    0                   0         0    0         0     0          0             0
     % HV     0        0    0      0        0         0    0       0      0      0      0    0    0    0                   0         0    0         0     0          0             0




                         Garrett Avenue                  Conestoga Road                     Williams Road                              Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                         Northbound                                  Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total                  Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          5       1       7        13      3     98     1     102              2       2         3               7       1     102          0        103              225
    07:45 AM          3       2       7        12      0    116     1     117            2        1           2             5       11      125         0        136              270
    08:00 AM          3       0      13        16      1     94     1      96            1        1           2             4         5     110         0        115              231
    08:15 AM          4       0      10        14      0    102     1     103            1        2           2             5         8      94         1        103              225
 Total Volume       15        3      37        55      4    410     4     418            6        6           9            21        25     431        1         457              951
 % App. Total     27.3      5.5    67.3                1   98.1     1                 28.6     28.6        42.9                     5.5    94.3      0.2
          PHF     .750     .375    .712      .859   .333   .884  1.00    .893         .750     .750        .750         .750       .568    .862     .250        .840             .881
          cars      15        3      37        55      4    410     4     418            6        6           9           21         25     431        1         457              951
        % cars     100      100     100       100    100    100   100     100          100      100         100          100        100     100      100         100              100
           HV         0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0        0           0            0          0       0        0           0                0
         % HV         0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0        0           0            0          0       0        0           0                0




                                                                                                                                                                               100
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Garrett Avenue/                                                                                                 File Name         : 09-ConGarAM
Williams Road                                                                                                                    Site Code         : 21102701
                                                                                                                                 Start Date        : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                 Page No           :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                     Garrett Avenue                        Conestoga Road                   Williams Road                              Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0                0       0     0    0     0               0            0
  07:15 AM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0                0       0     0    0     0               0            0
  07:30 AM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0                0       0     0    0     0               0            0
  07:45 AM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0                0       0     0    0     0               0            0
      Total      0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0                0       0     0    0     0               0            0

  08:00 AM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
  08:15 AM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
  08:30 AM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
  08:45 AM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
      Total      0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0

 Grand Total     0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
  Apprch %       0     0     0     0                  0      0     0      0            0     0      0          0                  0      0     0      0
   Total %




                         Garrett Avenue                  Conestoga Road                    Williams Road                            Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                        Northbound                                Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left Thru Right App. Total                Left Thru Right App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                0
    07:45 AM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                0
    08:00 AM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                0
    08:15 AM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                0
 Total Volume         0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                0
 % App. Total         0       0       0                0      0     0                    0      0          0                       0       0      0
          PHF     .000     .000    .000      .000   .000   .000  .000    .000         .000   .000       .000         .000       .000    .000   .000       .000             .000




                                                                                                                                                                         101
                                                               F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                          105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                         Philadelphia, PA 19147


Spring Mill and County Line Roads                                                                                                File Name           : 10-SpMCoLAM
                                                                                                                                 Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date          : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                                                 Page No             :1
                                                                      Groups Printed- cars - HV
                     County Line Road                       Spring Mill Road                County Line Road                            Spring Mill Road
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total           Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       3   18    17     0         38         7     47     5     0       59    11    16     3    0      30                4   46    10     0             60           187
  07:15 AM       6   36    12     0         54        14     55     5     0       74    11    29     7    0      47               11   53    13     0             77           252
  07:30 AM       9   70    13     0         92        16     72    23     0    111       9    41     7    0      57                6   80    14     0            100           360
  07:45 AM      13   78    11     0        102        13     54    15     0       82     9    54    16    0      79               11   61    19     0             91           354
      Total     31 202     53     0        286        50    228    48     0    326      40 140      33    0    213                32 240     56     0            328          1153

  08:00 AM       7    84    13     0       104        17     51     24      0     92    10      87         9          0   106      6     71     12        0       89           391
  08:15 AM       3    90    15     0       108        15     83     14      0    112    12      63        12          0    87     11     62     14        0       87           394
  08:30 AM       9    49    16     0        74         8     45     15      0     68    11      62         8          0    81     15     70     13        0       98           321
  08:45 AM       6    66    20     0        92        12     47     13      0     72     8      53         7          0    68     15     49     12        0       76           308
      Total     25   289    64     0       378        52    226     66      0    344    41     265        36          0   342     47    252     51        0      350          1414

 Grand Total 56 491 117            0       664        102 454 114           0    670     81 405    69                 0   555      79 492 107             0      678          2567
  Apprch %  8.4 73.9 17.6          0                 15.2 67.8  17          0          14.6   73 12.4                 0          11.7 72.6 15.8           0
   Total %  2.2 19.1  4.6          0      25.9          4 17.7  4.4         0   26.1    3.2 15.8  2.7                 0   21.6    3.1 19.2  4.2           0     26.4
       cars  54 480 105            0       639        101 430 110           0    641     77 397    66                 0    540     70 473 102             0      645          2465
    % cars 96.4 97.8 89.7          0      96.2         99 94.7 96.5         0   95.7   95.1   98 95.7                 0   97.3   88.6 96.1 95.3           0     95.1            96
        HV    2   11   12          0        25          1   24    4         0     29      4    8    3                 0     15      9   19    5           0       33           102
     % HV   3.6  2.2 10.3          0       3.8          1  5.3  3.5         0    4.3    4.9    2  4.3                 0    2.7   11.4  3.9  4.7           0      4.9             4




                        County Line Road                  Spring Mill Road                   County Line Road                         Spring Mill Road
                          Southbound                        Westbound                          Northbound                               Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total          Left Thru Right App. Total               Left Thru Right App. Total               Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          9      70      13        92      16      72     23    111            9         41          7         57       6      80        14        100              360
    07:45 AM         13      78      11       102      13      54     15     82            9         54         16         79      11      61        19         91              354
    08:00 AM          7      84      13       104      17      51     24     92           10         87           9       106       6      71      12           89              391
    08:15 AM          3      90      15       108      15      83     14    112           12       63            12        87      11      62      14           87              394
 Total Volume        32     322      52       406      61    260      76    397           40      245            44       329      34     274      59          367            1499
 % App. Total       7.9    79.3    12.8             15.4    65.5   19.1                 12.2     74.5          13.4               9.3    74.7    16.1
          PHF     .615     .894    .867      .940   .897    .783   .792    .886         .833     .704          .688       .776   .773    .856    .776         .918            .951
          cars       31     317      47       395      60    246      75    381           37      239            42        318     30     263      58          351            1445
        % cars    96.9     98.4    90.4      97.3   98.4    94.6   98.7    96.0         92.5     97.6          95.5       96.7   88.2    96.0    98.3         95.6            96.4
           HV         1       5       5        11       1      14      1     16            3        6             2         11      4      11       1           16              54
         % HV       3.1     1.6     9.6       2.7     1.6     5.4    1.3    4.0          7.5      2.4           4.5        3.3   11.8     4.0     1.7          4.4             3.6




                                                                                                                                                                             102
                                                               F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                          105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                         Philadelphia, PA 19147


Spring Mill and County Line Roads                                                                                                File Name            : 10-SpMCoLAM
                                                                                                                                 Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date           : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                                                 Page No              :1
                                                                         Groups Printed- HV
                     County Line Road                       Spring Mill Road                County Line Road                            Spring Mill Road
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total           Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0     0    1     0           1        0       1    1     0        2     1     0    0     0        1               1     1    1     0               3             7
  07:15 AM       0     1    3     0           4        0       4    1     0        5     0     0    0     0        0               0     3    2     0               5            14
  07:30 AM       0     3    1     0           4        0       2    1     0        3     1     2    0     0        3               2     3    0     0               5            15
  07:45 AM       1     0    2     0           3        0       8    0     0        8     1     2    1     0        4               1     0    1     0               2            17
      Total      1     4    7     0          12        0     15     3     0       18     3     4    1     0        8               4     7    4     0              15            53

  08:00 AM       0     1     0     0          1        1      3      0      0      4     0       0        0           0      0     0      2       0       0         2             7
  08:15 AM       0     1     2     0          3        0      1      0      0      1     1       2        1           0      4     1      6       0       0         7            15
  08:30 AM       1     3     2     0          6        0      1      1      0      2     0       0        0           0      0     1      3       0       0         4            12
  08:45 AM       0     2     1     0          3        0      4      0      0      4     0       2        1           0      3     3      1       1       0         5            15
      Total      1     7     5     0         13        1      9      1      0     11     1       4        2           0      7     5     12       1       0        18            49

 Grand Total     2   11   12       0         25        1   24    4          0     29    4    8             3          0     15    9   19    5             0        33          102
  Apprch %       8   44   48       0                 3.4 82.8 13.8          0        26.7 53.3            20          0        27.3 57.6 15.2             0
   Total %       2 10.8 11.8       0      24.5         1 23.5  3.9          0   28.4  3.9  7.8           2.9          0   14.7  8.8 18.6  4.9             0     32.4




                        County Line Road                  Spring Mill Road                   County Line Road                        Spring Mill Road
                          Southbound                        Westbound                          Northbound                              Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total          Left Thru Right App. Total              Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          0       3       1         4       0      2       1      3              1       2           0          3      2          3       0            5              15
    07:45 AM          1       0       2         3       0      8       0      8            1        2            1          4       1         0       1            2              17
    08:00 AM          0       1       0         1       1      3       0      4            0        0             0         0       0         2      0             2               7
    08:15 AM          0       1       2         3       0      1       0      1            1        2             1         4       1         6      0             7              15
 Total Volume         1       5       5        11       1     14       1     16            3        6             2        11       4      11        1           16               54
 % App. Total       9.1    45.5    45.5               6.2   87.5     6.2                27.3     54.5          18.2                25    68.8      6.2
          PHF     .250     .417    .625      .688   .250    .438   .250    .500         .750     .750          .500       .688   .500    .458     .250        .571             .794




                                                                                                                                                                             103
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan Avenue & County Line Road N                                                                                File Name        : 11-IthCoLNAM
                                                                                                                 Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                 Start Date       : 11/15/2012
                                                                                                                 Page No          :1
                                                                Groups Printed- cars - HV
                                Ithan Avenue                            Ithan Avenue                           County Line Road
                                 Southbound                              Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time      Thru     Right   Peds App. Total          Left   Thru     Peds App. Total       Left     Right    Peds App. Total    Int. Total
        07:00 AM         15         2      2        19            37       11        0       48         16         24       0        40           107
        07:15 AM         26        12      0        38            38       11        0       49         18         34       0        52           139
        07:30 AM         35        18      0        53            73       30        0      103         42         60       0       102           258
        07:45 AM         44        19      0        63            89       33        0      122         58         73       0       131           316
             Total      120        51      2       173           237       85        0      322        134       191        0       325           820

        08:00 AM         34       25         0          59        84           27           0   111     37         70        1        108        278
        08:15 AM         39       37         0          76        92           18           0   110     27         90        1        118        304
        08:30 AM         29       29         0          58        77           17           0    94     25         63        0         88        240
        08:45 AM         19       30         0          49        74           13           0    87     36         50        2         88        224
            Total       121      121         0         242       327           75           0   402    125        273        4        402       1046

      Grand Total      241      172          2         415      564           160           0   724    259       464          4       727       1866
       Apprch %        58.1     41.4       0.5                  77.9          22.1          0          35.6      63.8       0.6
         Total %       12.9      9.2       0.1        22.2      30.2           8.6          0   38.8   13.9      24.9       0.2       39
            cars       235      167          2        404       554           160           0   714    255       449          4      708        1826
          % cars       97.5     97.1       100        97.3      98.2          100           0   98.6   98.5      96.8       100      97.4       97.9
             HV           6        5         0         11        10              0          0    10       4       15          0       19          40
           % HV         2.5      2.9         0         2.7       1.8             0          0    1.4    1.5       3.2         0       2.6        2.1




                                    Ithan Avenue                            Ithan Avenue                   County Line Road
                                     Southbound                              Northbound                       Eastbound
            Start Time         Thru       Right    App. Total          Left       Thru   App. Total      Left    Right    App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM            35          18            53            73            30       103       42           60          102           258
             07:45 AM            44          19            63            89            33       122       58           73          131           316
             08:00 AM            34          25            59            84            27       111       37           70          107           277
             08:15 AM            39          37            76            92            18       110       27           90          117           303
        Total Volume            152          99           251           338           108       446      164          293          457          1154
         % App. Total          60.6        39.4                        75.8          24.2               35.9         64.1
                  PHF          .864        .669          .826          .918          .818       .914    .707         .814          .872         .913
                   cars         148          95           243           331           108        439     160          286           446         1128
                % cars         97.4        96.0          96.8          97.9           100       98.4    97.6         97.6          97.6         97.7
                    HV            4           4             8             7             0          7       4            7            11           26
                 % HV           2.6         4.0           3.2           2.1             0        1.6     2.4          2.4           2.4          2.3




                                                                                                                                               104
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan Avenue & County Line Road N                                                                              File Name      : 11-IthCoLNAM
                                                                                                               Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                               Start Date     : 11/15/2012
                                                                                                               Page No        :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- HV
                                Ithan Avenue                           Ithan Avenue                          County Line Road
                                 Southbound                             Northbound                              Eastbound
       Start Time      Thru     Right   Peds App. Total         Left   Thru     Peds App. Total      Left     Right    Peds App. Total      Int. Total
        07:00 AM          1         0      0         1            0        0       0         0         0          1       0         1               2
        07:15 AM          0         0      0         0            0        0       0         0         0          3       0         3               3
        07:30 AM          3         1      0         4            4        0       0         4         2          1       0         3              11
        07:45 AM          0         0      0         0            0        0       0         0         1          1       0         2               2
             Total        4         1      0         5            4        0       0         4         3          6       0         9              18

        08:00 AM          0         1        0           1        2          0          0        2     0          2       0             2           5
        08:15 AM          1         2        0           3        1          0          0        1     1          3       0             4           8
        08:30 AM          0         1        0           1        2          0          0        2     0          3       0             3           6
        08:45 AM          1         0        0           1        1          0          0        1     0          1       0             1           3
            Total         2         4        0           6        6          0          0        6     1          9       0            10          22

      Grand Total         6        5         0          11       10          0          0      10       4       15        0            19          40
       Apprch %        54.5     45.5         0                  100          0          0            21.1      78.9       0
         Total %        15      12.5         0        27.5       25          0          0      25     10       37.5       0       47.5




                                    Ithan Avenue                           Ithan Avenue                  County Line Road
                                     Southbound                             Northbound                      Eastbound
            Start Time         Thru       Right    App. Total         Left       Thru   App. Total     Left    Right    App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM             3           1             4            4          0           4        2            1           3                11
             07:45 AM             0           0             0            0          0           0        1            1           2                 2
             08:00 AM             0           1             1            2          0           2        0            2           2                 5
             08:15 AM             1           2             3            1          0           1        1            3           4                 8
        Total Volume              4           4             8            7          0           7        4            7          11                26
         % App. Total            50          50                        100          0                 36.4         63.6
                  PHF          .333        .500          .500         .438       .000         .438    .500         .583         .688             .591




                                                                                                                                               105
                                                         F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                  105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                 Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan Avenue & County Line Road S                                                                                 File Name     : 12-IthCoLSAM
                                                                                                                  Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                  Start Date    : 11/15/2012
                                                                                                                  Page No       :1
                                                                 Groups Printed- cars - HV
                                 Ithan Avenue                          County Line Road                          Ithan Avenue
                                  Southbound                              Westbound                               Northbound
        Start Time      Left     Thru    Peds App. Total          Left   Right    Peds App. Total       Thru     Right   Peds App. Total   Int. Total
         07:00 AM        10         25      0        35             0      34         0       34          25         5      0        30           99
         07:15 AM        19         41      0        60             8      35         0       43          24         0      0        24          127
         07:30 AM        35         65      0       100             7      55         0       62          52         4      0        56          218
         07:45 AM        39         91      0       130             4      64         0       68          54         4      0        58          256
              Total     103        222      0       325            19     188         0      207         155        13      0       168          700

        08:00 AM         33        77         0        110         13           54           0    67     56         2       0         58        235
        08:15 AM         31        95         0        126         13           77           0    90     37         5       0         42        258
        08:30 AM         34        57         0         91          6           55           0    61     39         5       0         44        196
        08:45 AM         30        44         0         74         14           60           0    74     30         1       0         31        179
            Total       128       273         0        401         46          246           0   292    162        13       0        175        868

      Grand Total      231       495          0        726        65           434           0   499    317       26        0        343       1568
       Apprch %        31.8      68.2         0                   13            87           0          92.4      7.6       0
         Total %       14.7      31.6         0        46.3       4.1          27.7          0   31.8   20.2      1.7       0       21.9
            cars       228       478          0        706        64           430           0   494    308       23        0       331        1531
          % cars       98.7      96.6         0        97.2      98.5          99.1          0    99    97.2     88.5       0       96.5       97.6
             HV           3       17          0         20          1             4          0      5      9        3       0        12          37
           % HV         1.3       3.4         0         2.8       1.5           0.9          0      1    2.8     11.5       0        3.5        2.4




                                     Ithan Avenue                         County Line Road                    Ithan Avenue
                                      Southbound                             Westbound                         Northbound
            Start Time          Left       Thru    App. Total           Left    Right    App. Total      Thru      Right   App. Total      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM            35          65           100              7            55        62        52          4          56           218
             07:45 AM            39          91           130              4            64        68        54          4          58           256
             08:00 AM             33         77           110             13            54        67        56          2          58           235
             08:15 AM             31         95           126             13            77        90        37          5          42           258
        Total Volume            138         328           466             37           250       287       199         15         214           967
         % App. Total          29.6        70.4                         12.9          87.1                  93          7
                  PHF          .885        .863          .896           .712          .812       .797     .888       .750         .922          .937
                   cars         136         319           455             36           248        284      194         14          208           947
                % cars         98.6        97.3          97.6           97.3          99.2       99.0     97.5       93.3         97.2          97.9
                    HV             2          9             11             1             2          3        5          1            6            20
                 % HV            1.4        2.7            2.4           2.7           0.8        1.0      2.5        6.7          2.8           2.1




                                                                                                                                              106
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan Avenue & County Line Road S                                                                               File Name     : 12-IthCoLSAM
                                                                                                                Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date    : 11/15/2012
                                                                                                                Page No       :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- HV
                                Ithan Avenue                         County Line Road                          Ithan Avenue
                                 Southbound                             Westbound                               Northbound
       Start Time      Left     Thru    Peds App. Total         Left   Right    Peds App. Total       Thru     Right   Peds App. Total      Int. Total
        07:00 AM         1          0      0         1            0       0        0         0           0         1      0         1               2
        07:15 AM         0          3      0         3            0       0        0         0           2         0      0         2               5
        07:30 AM         0          4      0         4            0       2        0         2           2         1      0         3               9
        07:45 AM         1          0      0         1            0       0        0         0           0         0      0         0               1
             Total       2          7      0         9            0       2        0         2           4         2      0         6              17

        08:00 AM          0        2         0           2        0            0           0      0     2         0       0            2            4
        08:15 AM          1        3         0           4        1            0           0      1     1         0       0            1            6
        08:30 AM          0        4         0           4        0            1           0      1     1         1       0            2            7
        08:45 AM          0        1         0           1        0            1           0      1     1         0       0            1            3
            Total         1       10         0          11        1            2           0      3     5         1       0            6           20

      Grand Total         3      17          0          20        1             4          0      5      9        3       0            12          37
       Apprch %          15      85          0                  20            80           0           75       25        0
         Total %        8.1     45.9         0        54.1      2.7          10.8          0   13.5   24.3      8.1       0       32.4




                                     Ithan Avenue                       County Line Road                    Ithan Avenue
                                      Southbound                           Westbound                         Northbound
            Start Time          Left       Thru    App. Total         Left    Right    App. Total      Thru      Right   App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM             0           4             4            0             2         2         2          1           3                 9
             07:45 AM             1           0             1            0             0         0         0          0           0                 1
             08:00 AM             0           2             2            0             0         0         2          0           2                 4
             08:15 AM             1           3             4            1             0         1         1          0           1                 6
        Total Volume              2           9            11            1             2         3         5          1           6                20
         % App. Total          18.2        81.8                       33.3          66.7                83.3       16.7
                  PHF          .500        .563          .688         .250          .250       .375     .625       .250         .500             .556




                                                                                                                                               107
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


County Line Road & Lowrys Lane                                                                                 File Name        : 13-CoLLowAM
                                                                                                               Site Code        : 21102791
                                                                                                               Start Date       : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                               Page No          :1
                                                                Groups Printed- cars - HV
                              County Line Road                        County Line Road                         Lowrys Lane
                                Southbound                              Northbound                              Eastbound
       Start Time      Thru    Right    Peds App. Total          Left   Thru     Peds App. Total       Left    Right   Peds App. Total    Int. Total
        07:00 AM         19        0       1        20             2      21         0       23          7        6       1        14            57
        07:15 AM         20        2       0        22             3      38         0       41          4        8       1        13            76
        07:30 AM         32        9       1        42            11      33         0       44         12       19       1        32           118
        07:45 AM         39        5       0        44            22      59         0       81         11       30       0        41           166
             Total      110      16        2       128            38     151         0      189         34       63       3       100           417

        08:00 AM         42        6         0          48        17           72           0    89     19       19        0         38        175
        08:15 AM         34       10         0          44         7           69           0    76     18       11        1         30        150
        08:30 AM         34        5         0          39         9           58           0    67     11        9        1         21        127
        08:45 AM         19       11         0          30         5           61           0    66     13       11        3         27        123
            Total       129       32         0         161        38          260           0   298     61       50        5        116        575

      Grand Total      239       48          2         289       76           411           0   487     95     113          8       216        992
       Apprch %        82.7     16.6       0.7                  15.6          84.4          0           44     52.3       3.7
         Total %       24.1      4.8       0.2        29.1       7.7          41.4          0   49.1   9.6     11.4       0.8      21.8
            cars       239       48          2        289        76           411           0   487     95     113          8      216         992
          % cars       100      100        100        100       100           100           0   100    100     100        100      100         100
             HV           0        0         0           0         0             0          0      0     0        0         0         0          0
           % HV           0        0         0           0         0             0          0      0     0        0         0         0          0




                                  County Line Road                       County Line Road                     Lowrys Lane
                                     Southbound                             Northbound                         Eastbound
            Start Time         Thru       Right    App. Total          Left     Thru    App. Total       Left     Right   App. Total      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM            32           9            41            11            33        44       12         19           31           116
             07:45 AM            39           5            44            22            59        81       11         30           41           166
             08:00 AM            42           6            48            17            72        89       19         19           38           175
             08:15 AM            34          10            44             7            69        76       18         11           29           149
        Total Volume            147          30           177            57           233       290       60         79          139           606
         % App. Total          83.1        16.9                        19.7          80.3               43.2       56.8
                  PHF          .875        .750          .922          .648          .809       .815    .789       .658          .848          .866
                   cars         147          30           177            57           233        290      60         79           139           606
                % cars          100         100           100           100           100        100     100        100           100           100
                    HV            0           0             0             0             0          0       0          0             0             0
                 % HV             0           0             0             0             0          0       0          0             0             0




                                                                                                                                             108
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


County Line Road & Lowrys Lane                                                                              File Name      : 13-CoLLowAM
                                                                                                            Site Code      : 21102791
                                                                                                            Start Date     : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                            Page No        :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- HV
                              County Line Road                       County Line Road                       Lowrys Lane
                                Southbound                             Northbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time      Thru    Right    Peds App. Total         Left   Thru     Peds App. Total     Left    Right   Peds App. Total     Int. Total
        07:00 AM          0        0       0         0            0       0        0         0        0        0       0         0              0
        07:15 AM          0        0       0         0            0       0        0         0        0        0       0         0              0
        07:30 AM          0        0       0         0            0       0        0         0        0        0       0         0              0
        07:45 AM          0        0       0         0            0       0        0         0        0        0       0         0              0
             Total        0        0       0         0            0       0        0         0        0        0       0         0              0

        08:00 AM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0       0     0        0       0            0            0
        08:15 AM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0       0     0        0       0            0            0
        08:30 AM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0       0     0        0       0            0            0
        08:45 AM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0       0     0        0       0            0            0
            Total         0         0        0           0        0          0          0       0     0        0       0            0            0

      Grand Total         0         0        0           0        0          0          0       0     0        0       0            0            0
       Apprch %           0         0        0                    0          0          0             0        0       0
         Total %




                                  County Line Road                      County Line Road                   Lowrys Lane
                                     Southbound                            Northbound                       Eastbound
            Start Time         Thru       Right    App. Total         Left     Thru    App. Total     Left     Right   App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM             0           0            0             0          0          0        0          0           0                 0
             07:45 AM             0           0            0             0          0          0        0          0           0                 0
             08:00 AM             0           0            0             0          0          0        0          0           0                 0
             08:15 AM             0           0            0             0          0          0        0          0           0                 0
        Total Volume              0           0            0             0          0          0        0          0           0                 0
        % App. Total              0           0                          0          0                   0          0
                  PHF          .000        .000         .000          .000       .000        .000    .000       .000         .000            .000




                                                                                                                                           109
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


County Line & Airdale Roads                                                                                      File Name      : 14-CoLAirAM
                                                                                                                 Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                 Start Date     : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                                 Page No        :1
                                                                Groups Printed- cars - HV
                                Airdale Road                         County Line Road                          Airdale Road
                                Southbound                               Westbound                              Eastbound
       Start Time      Left     Right    Peds App. Total        Thru    Right    Peds App. Total       Left    Thru     Peds App. Total   Int. Total
        07:00 AM         2        14        1        17           42        2        0       44         20       54        0        74          135
        07:15 AM         2        20        2        24           43        3        0       46         31       53        0        84          154
        07:30 AM         3        24        2        29           57        3        0       60         28       76        0       104          193
        07:45 AM         4        23        4        31           85        7        0       92         58       56        1       115          238
             Total      11        81        9       101          227      15         0      242        137      239        1       377          720

        08:00 AM          4       27         3          34        73            6           2    81     51       41        0         92        207
        08:15 AM          4       22         9          35        67            4           0    71     62       43        1        106        212
        08:30 AM          2       28         3          33        56            2           0    58     50       74        0        124        215
        08:45 AM          1       18         6          25        70            3           5    78     53       51        0        104        207
            Total        11       95        21         127       266           15           7   288    216      209        1        426        841

      Grand Total        22     176        30          228      493            30         7     530    353     448          2       803       1561
       Apprch %         9.6     77.2      13.2                   93            5.7      1.3             44     55.8       0.2
         Total %        1.4     11.3       1.9        14.6      31.6           1.9      0.4      34    22.6    28.7       0.1      51.4
            cars         19     176        30         225       479            28         7     514    350     444          2      796        1535
          % cars       86.4     100       100         98.7      97.2          93.3      100      97    99.2    99.1       100      99.1       98.3
             HV           3        0         0           3       14              2        0      16       3       4         0         7         26
           % HV        13.6        0         0         1.3       2.8           6.7        0       3     0.8     0.9         0       0.9        1.7




                                     Airdale Road                      County Line Road                       Airdale Road
                                     Southbound                          Westbound                             Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Right    App. Total       Thru     Right    App. Total         Left      Thru    App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM             3          24            27            57             3        60       28         76          104           191
             07:45 AM             4          23            27            85             7        92       58         56          114           233
             08:00 AM             4          27            31            73             6        79       51         41           92           202
             08:15 AM             4          22            26            67             4        71       62         43          105           202
        Total Volume             15          96           111           282            20       302      199        216          415           828
         % App. Total          13.5        86.5                        93.4           6.6                 48         52
                  PHF          .938        .889          .895          .829          .714       .821    .802       .711          .910          .888
                   cars          13          96           109           276            19        295     197        215           412           816
                % cars         86.7         100          98.2          97.9          95.0       97.7    99.0       99.5          99.3          98.6
                    HV            2           0             2             6             1          7       2          1             3            12
                 % HV          13.3           0           1.8           2.1           5.0        2.3     1.0        0.5           0.7           1.4




                                                                                                                                             110
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


County Line & Airdale Roads                                                                                      File Name      : 14-CoLAirAM
                                                                                                                 Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                 Start Date     : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                                 Page No        :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- HV
                                Airdale Road                         County Line Road                          Airdale Road
                                Southbound                              Westbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time      Left     Right    Peds App. Total        Thru   Right    Peds App. Total        Left    Thru     Peds App. Total     Int. Total
        07:00 AM         1         0        0         1            1      0        0         1           0        1        0         1              3
        07:15 AM         0         0        0         0            1      0        0         1           0        0        0         0              1
        07:30 AM         0         0        0         0            3      1        0         4           1        0        0         1              5
        07:45 AM         2         0        0         2            1      0        0         1           1        1        0         2              5
             Total       3         0        0         3            6      1        0         7           2        2        0         4             14

        08:00 AM          0         0        0           0        2             0           0      2     0        0        0            0            2

        08:30 AM          0         0        0           0        1             0           0      1     0        1        0            1           2
        08:45 AM          0         0        0           0        5             1           0      6     1        1        0            2           8
            Total         0         0        0           0        8             1           0      9     1        2        0            3          12

      Grand Total         3         0        0           3       14              2          0    16       3       4        0            7          26
       Apprch %        100          0        0                  87.5          12.5          0          42.9    57.1        0
         Total %       11.5         0        0        11.5      53.8           7.7          0   61.5   11.5    15.4        0       26.9




                                     Airdale Road                     County Line Road                        Airdale Road
                                     Southbound                         Westbound                              Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Right    App. Total      Thru     Right    App. Total          Left      Thru    App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM             0           0             0             3             1         4        1          0            1                5
             07:45 AM             2           0             2             1             0         1        1          1            2                5
             08:00 AM             0           0             0             2             0         2        0          0            0                2
             08:15 AM             0           0             0             0             0         0        0          0            0                0
        Total Volume              2           0             2             6             1         7        2          1            3               12
         % App. Total           100           0                        85.7          14.3               66.7       33.3
                  PHF          .250        .000          .250          .500          .250       .438    .500       .250          .375            .600




                                                                                                                                               111
                                                               F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                          105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                         Philadelphia, PA 19147


County Line & Roberts Roads                                                                                                        File Name            : 15-CoLRobAM
                                                                                                                                   Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                                                   Page No              :1
                                                                      Groups Printed- cars - HV
                     County Line Road                        Roberts Road                   County Line Road                              Roberts Road
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total            Left Thru Right Peds          App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       1   70     0     0         71         1       1    2     0        4     0 129       1    0    130                 11     4    0     0              15           220
  07:15 AM       1   83     4     3         91         1       3    0     1        5     0 124       2    0    126                 11     4    1     0              16           238
  07:30 AM       0 110     10     1        121         0       3    0     0        3     1 141      10    0    152                 13   14     3     1              31           307
  07:45 AM       5 119     11     2        137         0       5    4     1       10     3 143       2    0    148                 14   30     1     0              45           340
      Total      7 382     25     6        420         2     12     6     2       22     4 537      15    0    556                 49   52     5     1             107          1105

  08:00 AM       1   124     9     0       134         2      5      0      1      8     6       132        6          1   145     18     28       0        1       47           334
  08:15 AM       2   111     7     1       121         0     10      2      1     13     4       191        7          0   202     21     26       4        0       51           387
  08:30 AM       4   107    11     0       122         1      5      1      0      7     0       146       10          2   158     13     12       0        0       25           312
  08:45 AM       0   136     7     1       144         0      7      4      0     11     0       153       15          0   168     14     10       0        1       25           348
      Total      7   478    34     2       521         3     27      7      2     39    10       622       38          3   673     66     76       4        2      148          1381

 Grand Total    14 860    59       8       941         5   39  13           4     61    14       1159     53        3      1229    115 128          9     3        255          2486
  Apprch %     1.5 91.4  6.3     0.9                 8.2 63.9 21.3        6.6          1.1       94.3    4.3      0.2             45.1 50.2       3.5   1.2
   Total %     0.6 34.6  2.4     0.3      37.9       0.2  1.6  0.5        0.2    2.5   0.6       46.6    2.1      0.1      49.4    4.6  5.1       0.4   0.1       10.3
       cars     14 813    57       8       892         5   37  13           4     59    14       1150     51        3      1218    114 128          9     3        254          2423
    % cars     100 94.5 96.6     100      94.8       100 94.9 100         100   96.7   100       99.2   96.2      100      99.1   99.1 100        100   100       99.6          97.5
        HV       0   47    2       0        49         0    2    0          0      2     0          9      2        0        11      1    0         0     0          1            63
     % HV        0  5.5  3.4       0       5.2         0  5.1    0          0    3.3     0        0.8    3.8        0       0.9    0.9    0         0     0        0.4           2.5




                        County Line Road                  Roberts Road                       County Line Road                             Roberts Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                                  Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total          Left Thru Right App. Total                Left    Thru Right App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          0     110      10       120       0     3     0        3               1      141          10        152      13      14          3          30             305
    07:45 AM          5     119      11       135       0     5     4        9               3      143            2       148      14       30         1          45             337
    08:00 AM          1     124       9       134       2     5     0        7               6      132            6       144      18       28         0          46             331
    08:15 AM          2     111       7       120       0    10     2      12              4        191            7       202      21       26         4          51             385
 Total Volume         8     464      37       509       2    23     6      31             14         607          25       646      66       98        8         172            1358
 % App. Total       1.6    91.2     7.3               6.5  74.2  19.4                    2.2          94         3.9              38.4       57      4.7
          PHF     .400     .935    .841      .943   .250   .575  .375    .646           .583        .795        .625       .800   .786     .817     .500        .843            .882
          cars        8     442      35       485       2    23     6      31             14         603          23        640     66       98        8         172            1328
        % cars     100     95.3    94.6      95.3    100    100   100     100            100        99.3        92.0       99.1    100      100      100         100            97.8
           HV         0      22       2        24       0     0     0        0             0           4           2          6      0        0        0           0              30
         % HV         0     4.7     5.4       4.7       0     0     0        0             0         0.7         8.0        0.9      0        0        0           0             2.2




                                                                                                                                                                               112
                                                               F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                          105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                         Philadelphia, PA 19147


County Line & Roberts Roads                                                                                                    File Name         : 15-CoLRobAM
                                                                                                                               Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                               Start Date        : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                                               Page No           :1
                                                                        Groups Printed- HV
                     County Line Road                        Roberts Road                   County Line Road                         Roberts Road
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                             Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total        Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0     5    0     0           5        0       0    0     0        0     0     2    0     0        2            0     0    0     0               0          7
  07:15 AM       0     6    0     0           6        0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0     0        0            0     0    0     0               0          7
  07:30 AM       0     5    0     0           5        0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0        0            0     0    0     0               0          5
  07:45 AM       0     5    0     0           5        0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0        0            0     0    0     0               0          5
      Total      0   21     0     0          21        0       1    0     0        1     0     2    0     0        2            0     0    0     0               0         24

  08:00 AM       0     5     1     0          6        0      0      0      0      0     0      0       0          0      0     0     0      0      0            0          6
  08:15 AM       0     7     1     0          8        0      0      0      0      0     0      4       2          0      6     0     0      0      0            0         14
  08:30 AM       0     5     0     0          5        0      0      0      0      0     0      1       0          0      1     0     0      0      0            0          6
  08:45 AM       0     9     0     0          9        0      1      0      0      1     0      2       0          0      2     1     0      0      0            1         13
      Total      0    26     2     0         28        0      1      0      0      1     0      7       2          0      9     1     0      0      0            1         39

 Grand Total     0   47      2     0         49        0      2      0      0      2     0    9    2               0     11     1     0      0      0            1         63
  Apprch %       0 95.9    4.1     0                   0    100      0      0            0 81.8 18.2               0          100     0      0      0
   Total %       0 74.6    3.2     0      77.8         0    3.2      0      0    3.2     0 14.3  3.2               0   17.5   1.6     0      0      0       1.6




                       County Line Road                   Roberts Road                       County Line Road                        Roberts Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                             Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total          Left Thru Right App. Total           Left    Thru Right App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          0       5       0         5      0      0     0        0             0        0         0          0       0       0      0            0                5
    07:45 AM          0       5       0         5      0      0     0        0             0        0         0          0       0       0      0            0                5
    08:00 AM          0       5       1         6      0      0     0        0             0        0         0          0       0       0      0            0                6
    08:15 AM          0       7       1         8      0      0     0        0             0        4         2          6       0       0      0            0              14
 Total Volume         0      22       2        24      0      0     0        0             0       4           2         6       0       0      0            0              30
 % App. Total         0    91.7     8.3                0      0     0                      0    66.7        33.3                 0       0      0
          PHF     .000     .786    .500      .750   .000   .000  .000    .000           .000    .250        .250       .250   .000    .000   .000       .000             .536




                                                                                                                                                                       113
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan & Aldwyn Lanes                                                                                                                          File Name          : 16-IthAldAM
                                                                                                                                              Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                                              Start Date         : 11/15/2012
                                                                                                                                              Page No            :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Ithan Avenue                          South Campus                     Ithan Avenue                                       Aldwyn Lane
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                         Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds               App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       1     9    1     4        15         0       0    0     3        3     7    21     1    0                   29         0     0    6     0                 6           53
  07:15 AM       3   37     0     0        40         2       0    3     1        6    13    33     2    0                   48         5     0   13     0                18          112
  07:30 AM       6   51     2     1        60         2       0    1     2        5     1    67     2    0                   70         5     0   21     0                26          161
  07:45 AM       5   68     0     5        78         2       0    6     5       13     4    96     1    1                  102         5     0   20     1                26          219
      Total     15 165      3    10       193         6       0   10    11       27    25 217       6    1                  249        15     0   60     1                76          545

  08:00 AM       4    26     1    80      111         2      1     1      2      6     0       103        2          2      107         5       0      10        1        16          240
  08:15 AM       1    44     0   115      160         1      0     4      0      5     4        85        4          0       93         1       0       8        0         9          267
  08:30 AM       6    23     0     9       38         2      0     6      3     11     6        56        1          0       63         1       0       3        1         5          117
  08:45 AM       7    19     0    16       42         1      0     4      5     10     1        45        1          3       50         3       0       3        0         6          108
      Total     18   112     1   220      351         6      1    15     10     32    11       289        8          5      313        10       0      24        2        36          732

 Grand Total 33 277          4 230        544         12     1  25    21        59     36 506    14               6         562         25      0   84         3        112          1277
  Apprch %  6.1 50.9       0.7 42.3                 20.3   1.7 42.4 35.6              6.4   90  2.5             1.1                   22.3      0   75       2.7
   Total %  2.6 21.7       0.3   18      42.6        0.9   0.1    2  1.6       4.6    2.8 39.6  1.1             0.5          44          2      0  6.6       0.2        8.8
       cars  30 267          4 230        531         11     1  21    21        54     28 496    13               6         543         25      0   78         3        106          1234
    % cars 90.9 96.4       100 100       97.6       91.7   100  84 100        91.5   77.8   98 92.9             100        96.6        100      0 92.9       100       94.6          96.6
        HV    3   10         0    0        13          1     0    4    0         5      8   10    1               0          19          0      0    6         0          6            43
     % HV   9.1  3.6         0    0       2.4        8.3     0  16     0       8.5   22.2    2  7.1               0         3.4          0      0  7.1         0        5.4           3.4




                          Ithan Avenue                    South Campus                          Ithan Avenue                                   Aldwyn Lane
                           Southbound                      Westbound                             Northbound                                     Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left      Thru Right App. Total                 Left    Thru Right        App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          6      51       2         59     2      0      1       3             1         67         2            70          5         0        21          26             158
    07:45 AM          5      68       0         73     2      0      6       8             4         96         1           101          5         0      20            25             207
    08:00 AM          4      26       1         31     2      1      1       4           0       103            2           105          5         0      10            15             155
    08:15 AM          1      44       0         45     1      0      4       5           4         85           4            93          1         0       8             9             152
 Total Volume        16     189       3       208      7      1     12     20            9        351            9          369         16         0      59            75             672
 % App. Total       7.7    90.9     1.4               35      5     60                 2.4       95.1          2.4                    21.3         0    78.7
          PHF     .667     .695    .375      .712   .875   .250   .500   .625         .563       .852         .563         .879       .800      .000    .702         .721             .812
          cars       14     180       3       197      7      1      9     17            4        343            9          356         16         0      58           74              644
        % cars    87.5     95.2     100      94.7    100    100   75.0   85.0         44.4       97.7          100         96.5        100         0    98.3         98.7             95.8
           HV         2       9       0         11     0      0      3       3           5          8            0           13          0         0       1            1               28
         % HV     12.5      4.8       0        5.3     0      0   25.0   15.0         55.6        2.3            0          3.5          0         0     1.7          1.3              4.2




                                                                                                                                                                                    114
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                         105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                        Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan & Aldwyn Lanes                                                                                                                        File Name          : 16-IthAldAM
                                                                                                                                            Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                                            Start Date         : 11/15/2012
                                                                                                                                            Page No            :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Ithan Avenue                          South Campus                     Ithan Avenue                                     Aldwyn Lane
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds              App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds          App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     1     0     0    0                     1       0     0    1     0                   1          2
  07:15 AM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0     0    0                     0       0     0    2     0                   2          2
  07:30 AM       1     7    0     0           8       0       0    1     0        1     1     1     0    0                     2       0     0    0     0                   0         11
  07:45 AM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    1     0        1     1     4     0    0                     5       0     0    0     0                   0          6
      Total      1     7    0     0           8       0       0    2     0        2     3     5     0    0                     8       0     0    3     0                   3         21

  08:00 AM       1     0     0     0          1       0      0     0       0      0    0       1        0           0         1        0      0       1        0            1          3
  08:15 AM       0     2     0     0          2       0      0     1       0      1    3       2        0           0         5        0      0       0        0            0          8
  08:30 AM       0     1     0     0          1       1      0     0       0      1    2       2        1           0         5        0      0       1        0            1          8
  08:45 AM       1     0     0     0          1       0      0     1       0      1    0       0        0           0         0        0      0       1        0            1          3
      Total      2     3     0     0          5       1      0     2       0      3    5       5        1           0        11        0      0       3        0            3         22

 Grand Total      3   10     0     0        13        1      0      4      0      5    8   10            1          0        19        0      0        6       0            6         43
  Apprch %     23.1 76.9     0     0                 20      0    80       0        42.1 52.6          5.3          0                  0      0      100       0
   Total %        7 23.3     0     0     30.2       2.3      0    9.3      0   11.6 18.6 23.3          2.3          0     44.2         0      0       14       0        14




                          Ithan Avenue                    South Campus                         Ithan Avenue                                  Aldwyn Lane
                           Southbound                      Westbound                            Northbound                                    Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left     Thru Right App. Total                Left    Thru Right        App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:30 AM to 08:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          1       7       0         8      0      0      1       1             1       1            0              2        0        0         0            0              11
    07:45 AM          0       0       0         0      0      0      1       1             1       4            0              5        0        0         0            0               6
    08:00 AM          1       0       0         1      0      0      0       0             0      1             0             1         0        0         1            1               3
    08:15 AM          0       2       0         2      0      0      1       1             3      2             0             5         0        0        0             0               8
 Total Volume         2       9       0        11      0      0      3       3           5        8             0            13         0        0        1             1              28
 % App. Total     18.2     81.8       0                0      0    100                38.5     61.5             0                       0        0      100
          PHF     .500     .321    .000      .344   .000   .000   .750   .750         .417     .500          .000         .650       .000     .000     .250        .250             .636




                                                                                                                                                                                  115
                                                                                                                                                     F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                  105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                                                                                                                 Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster Avenue & Spring Mill/Sproul Rd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  File Name                                  : 01-30SproulPM
& Kenilworth Rd/Aldwyn Ln                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code                                  : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Start Date                                 : 11/8/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Page No                                    :1
                                                                                                                                                                            Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      North Spring Mill
                                                                                   Lancaster Avenue                                                   Aldwyn Lane                                                        Sproul Road                                               Lancaster Avenue                                                        Kenilworth Road
                           Road
                                                                                      Westbound                                                      Northwestbound                                                      Northbound                                                   Eastbound                                                            Southeastbound
                        Southbound
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lt                                                      Lt
                Lt        Lt                                                  Lt         Lt                                                    Lt        Lt                                                  Lt        Lt                                                        Lt                                                                             Lt
                                                                     App.                                                             App.                                                          App.                                                                 App.               o                                              App.     o                                                       App.      Int.
                oL         o                                                   o          o                                                     o        oL                                                  oL         o                                                         o                                                                            oL
 Start Time                                                          Tota                                                             Tota                                                          Tota                                                                 Tota               S                                              Tota     S                                                       Tota     Tota
                an        Al                                                  Al         Sp                                                    Sp        an                                                  an        Ke                                                        Ke                                                                             an
                                                                        l                                                                l                                                             l                                                                    l              Mil                                                l    Mil                                                         l         l
                 c         d                                                   d           r                                                     r        c                                                   c         n                                                         n                                                                              c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                                                       l

                                                                                                      23                                                                                                                                                                                               16
04:00 PM        5 1                    33     59        0 2          100      1 9                              0 4 1                  253      2 7 0 1 2 0 12                                                63        0            34        3 0 0                      100     1         43                       8      49        0     267     0 0 0 1 2 0                                               3       735
                                                                                                       8                                                                                                                                                                                                6

                                                                                                      20                                                                                                                                                                                               19
04:15 PM        7 1                    30     59        0 2 99 1 2                                             0 5 0                  214      1         20           0 1 3 0 25                             37        1            24        3 0 0 65 1                                   47                       11     69        0     320     0 0 0 3 3 0                                               6       729
                                                                                                       6                                                                                                                                                                                                2

                                                                                                      19                                                                                                                                                                                               16
04:30 PM        8 0                    32     52        0 3 95 0 5                                             0 3 0                  207      1         20           0 1 3 0 25                             57        1            31        7 2 0 98 0                                   44                       3      60        0     276     0 0 0 0 1 0                                               1       702
                                                                                                       9                                                                                                                                                                                                9

                                                                                                      18                                                                                                                                                                                               18
04:45 PM        10        1            54     50        0 5          120      0 2                              0 4 0                  194      3         14           0 2 2 0 21                             49        0            26        6 0 0 81 0                                   53                       7      67        0     312     0 0 0 2 2 0                                               4       732
                                                                                                       8                                                                                                                                                                                                5

 Tota                                  14      22                                                     83                                                                                                     20                     11                                                     18          71                   24
                30        3                             0     12     414      2          18                    0         16    1      868      7         61           0 5              10     0 83                     2                      19         2 0             344     2                                  29               0     1175    0 0 0 6 8 0 14                                                    2898
     l                                  9          0                                                   1                                                                                                      6                      5                                                      7           2                       5




                                                                                                      22                                                                                                                                                                                               22
05:00 PM        11        2            36     64        1 4          118      0 4                              0 4 0                  232      0 9 0 1 3 2 15                                                36        0            30        3 0 0 69 0                                   63                       5      77        0     368     0 0 0 1 4 0                                               5       807
                                                                                                       4                                                                                                                                                                                                3

                                                                                                      20                                                                                                                                                                                               21
05:15 PM        11        2            45     70        0 2          130      1 9                              0 8 0                  224      1         15           0 2 2 0 20                             61        0            26        4 0 0 91 1                                   45                       7      71        0     339     1 1 0 0 3 0                                               5       809
                                                                                                       6                                                                                                                                                                                                5

                                                                                                      22                                                                                                                                                                                               26
05:30 PM        7 3                    40     50        0 0          100      0 2                              0         10    0      236      2         14           0 0 4 1 21                             45        0            23        3 0 0 71 1                                   66                       7      66        1     410     0 0 0 2 3 0                                               5       843
                                                                                                       4                                                                                                                                                                                                9

                                                                                                      18                                                                                                                                                                                               25
05:45 PM        9 2                    42     46        0 0 99 1 7                                             0         10    0      199      4         13           0 1 1 0 19                             45        0            31        10         1 0 87 2                          70                       11     62        0     403     0 0 0 0 4 0                                               4       811
                                                                                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                                8

 Tota                                  16      23                                                     83                                                                                                     18                     11                                                     24          96                   27
                38        9                             1 6          447      2          22                    0         32    0      891      7         51           0 4              10     3 75                     0                      20         1 0             318     4                                  30               1     1520    1 1 0 3                                   14        0 19          3270
     l                                  3          0                                                   5                                                                                                      7                      0                                                      4           5                       6




     Grand                             31      45                                                     16                                                 11                                                  39                     22                                                     43          16                   52
                68        12                            1     18     861      4          40                    0         48    1      1759     14                     0 9              20     3     158                2                      39         3 0             662     6                                  59               1     2695    1 1 0 9                                   22        0 33          6168
      Total                             2          0                                                  66                                                  2                                                   3                      5                                                      1          77                       1

                                   36.        52.                                                     94.                                                70.                           12.                   59.                                                                                       62.                 19.                                                      27.     66.
 Apprch %       7.9       1.4                           0.1   2.1             0.2        2.3                   0        2.7   0.1              8.9                    0      5.7              1.9                      0.3          34        5.9        0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2       16                   2.2                  0             3 3 0                                               0
                                        2          3                                                   7                                                  9                              7                    4                                                                                         2                       3                                                    3           7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       27.
 Total %        1.1       0.2      5.1        7.3
                                                          0
                                                              0.3    14       0.1        0.6          27       0        0.8
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                      28.5     0.2       1.8
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                             0.1       0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.6      6.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.6       0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10.7    0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1      8.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           43.7    0 0 0                            0.1     0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2


    cars        68        12
                                       29      44
                                                        1      18    838      4          39
                                                                                                      16
                                                                                                               0         47    1      1715     14
                                                                                                                                                         10
                                                                                                                                                                      0 7              19     3     150
                                                                                                                                                                                                             37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2            21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  39     3 0             640     6         42          16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1     2655    1 1 0 8                                   22        0     3       6030
                                        9          0                                                  24                                                  7                                                   8                      8                                                      2          51                       6                                                                            2
                10        10       95.        97.        10    10             10         97.          97.               97.    10              10        95.                 77.              10             96.       10           96.           10     10                      10        97.         98.          10                10           10           10                  88.      10
% cars                                                               97.3                                      0                      97.5                            0                95           94.9                                                           0     96.7                                              99              98.5                          0                             0 97          97.8
                 0         0            8          8      0     0              0          5            5                  9     0               0         5                      8             0              2         0            9            0           0                   0         9           4            0                 0            0           0                    9           0

    HV 0 0                             13     10        0 0 23 0 1                                    42       0 1 0 44 0 5 0 2 1 0                                                                  8       15        0 7 0 0 0 22 0 9                                                                26           0 5 0 40 0 0 0 1 0 0                                                                     1       138
                                                                                                                                                                             22.                                                                                                                                                                                                    11.
% HV            0 0                4.2        2.2
                                                          0     0
                                                                     2.7       0         2.5          2.5
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                        2.1
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                      2.5       0        4.5
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                       5 0          5.1      3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0          0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.3      0        2.1         1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0          1      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5     0            0        0                   0 0             3       2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                 2                                                                                                                                                                                                   1




                          North Spring Mill
                                                                                    Lancaster Avenue                                                      Aldwyn Lane                                                        Sproul Road                                               Lancaster Avenue                                                        Kenilworth Road
                               Road
                                                                                       Westbound                                                         Northwestbound                                                      Northbound                                                   Eastbound                                                            Southeastbound
                            Southbound
                  L to                                 R to                                                 T to              R to                             L to                  R to    R to             L to                        T to         R to                                  L to            T to                                   L to         L to                                R to
                                L to        T to              R to    App.      L to           L to                    R to            App.      L to                     T to                       App.                    L to                                 R to    App.    L to                                   R to       R to    App.                             T to         R to               App.       Int.
   Start Time     Lan                                  Lan                                                  Lan               SM                               Lan                   SM      Lan              Lan                         SM           Lan                                   SM              Lan                                    SM           Lan                                 Lan
                                Ald         Spr               Ken     Total        Ald         Spr                     Ken             Total     Spr                      Ken                        Total               Ken                                      Ald    Total    Ken                                    Ald        Spr    Total                             Ald          Spr               Total     Total
                      c                                  c                                                    c                 ill                              c                     ill     c                   c                        ill          c                                       ill           c                                         ill         c                                 c

Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM 11 2 36 64     1 114 0 4 224 0 4 232 0 9                                                                                                                         0          1       3     13        36              0           30            3          0      69           0     63              223          5         77     368       0               0        0            1          4       5      801
 05:15 PM 11 2 45 70      0 128   1 9 206 0 8 224 1 15                                                                                                                     0          2       2     20        61              0           26            4          0     91        1         45              215          7         71     339       1               1        0            0          3       5      807
 05:30 PM  7 3 40 50 0 100 0 2 224 0 10 236 2 14                                                                                                                           0          0       4     20        45              0           23            3          0      71           1     66              269          7         66     409       0               0        0            2          3       5      841
 05:45 PM  9 2 42 46 0 99 1 7 181 0 10 199 4 13                                                                                                                            0          1       1      19       45              0           31           10          1     87        2         70              258         11         62     403       0               0        0            0          4       4      811
        Total
                  38             9          163        230     1     441            2          22           835         0     32      891            7        51           0          4      10      72       187            0            110          20          1     318       4         244             965         30         276    1519      1               1        0            3         14      19      3260
      Volume

 % App. Total     8.6            2          37         52.2   0.2               0.2            2.5          93.7
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                              3.6               9.7           70.8
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                     5.6     13.9             58.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          34.6         6.3        0.3             0.3        16.1            63.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18.2            5.3          5.3          0           15.8       73.7
         PHF
                  .864          .750        .906       .821   .250   .861      .500            .611         .932       .000   .800    .944      .438          .850        .000       .500    .625   .900      .766       .000             .887         .500       .250   .874     .500       .871            .897        .682       .896   .928    .250          .250        .000         .375       .875   .950     .969
    cars          38             9          160        226     1     434            2          22           817         0     31      872            7        51           0          4       9      71       186            0            109          20          1     316       4         237             955         30         274    1500      1               1        0            3         14      19      3212
 % cars           100           100         98.2       98.3   100    98.4       100            100          97.8
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                              96.9    97.9      100           100          0         100     90.0   98.6      99.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          99.1         100        100    99.4     100        97.1            99.0        100        99.3   98.7    100           100          0           100        100    100      98.5
      HV              0          0           3          4      0        7           0           0           18          0      1        19           0          0          0          0       1        1           1          0            1            0          0        2          0         7           10           0          2      19           0           0        0            0          0       0        48
    % HV              0          0          1.8        1.7           1.6                                    2.2               3.1     2.1                                                    10.0   1.4       0.5                         0.9                            0.6                 2.9             1.0                    0.7    1.3                                                                       1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    116
                                                                                                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                           105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                                                                                                          Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster Avenue & Spring Mill/Sproul Rd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    File Name                                  : 01-30SproulPM
& Kenilworth Rd/Aldwyn Ln                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code                                  : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Start Date                                 : 11/8/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Page No                                    :1
                                                                                                                                                                             Groups Printed- HV
                     North Spring Mill
                                                                                 Lancaster Avenue                                              Aldwyn Lane                                                    Sproul Road                                              Lancaster Avenue                                                      Kenilworth Road
                          Road
                                                                                    Westbound                                                 Northwestbound                                                  Northbound                                                  Eastbound                                                          Southeastbound
                       Southbound
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lt                                                     Lt
                Lt       Lt                                                 Lt         Lt                                                Lt       Lt                                               Lt        Lt                                                      Lt                                                                           Lt
                                                                   App.                                                         App.                                                       App.                                                              App.              o                                             App.     o                                                       App.      Int.
                oL        o                                                 o           o                                                 o       oL                                               oL         o                                                       o                                                                          oL
 Start Time                                                        Tota                                                         Tota                                                       Tota                                                              Tota              S                                             Tota     S                                                       Tota     Tota
                an       Al                                                 Al         Sp                                                Sp       an                                               an        Ke                                                      Ke                                                                           an
                                                                      l                                                            l                                                          l                                                                 l             Mil                                               l    Mil                                                         l         l
                 c        d                                                 d            r                                                r        c                                                c         n                                                       n                                                                            c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                                      l

04:00 PM        0        0           0      0         0     0       0       0          0 10 0 0                          0 10 0 2 0 0                                         0      0      2      3         0           1         0         0         0      4      0        1           1            0     0         0      2      0           0         0          1        0         0     1       19
04:15 PM        0        0           2      2         0     0       4       0          0 7 0 0                           0 7 0 3 0 1                                          0      0      4      3         0           2         0         0         0      5      0        0           6            0     2         0      8      0           0         0          0        0         0     0       28
04:30 PM        0        0           3      0         0     0       3       0          1 3 0 0                           0 4 0 0 0 1                                          0      0      1      6         0           0         0         0         0      6      0        1           3            0     1         0      5      0           0         0          0        0         0     0       19
04:45 PM        0        0           5      4         0     0       9       0          0 4 0 0                           0 4 0 0 0 0                                          0      0      0      2         0           3         0         0         0      5      0        0           6            0     0         0      6      0           0         0          0        0         0     0       24
 Tota
       0 0                           10     6 0 0 16 0 1                                            24       0 0 0 25 0 5 0 2 0 0                                                           7      14        0 6 0 0 0 20 0 2                                                             16           0 3 0 21 0 0 0 1 0 0                                                                    1 90
     l

05:00 PM        0        0           1      3         0     0       4       0          0            6        0     1     0       7       0        0            0      0       0      0      0      1         0           1         0         0         0      2      0        5           1            0     0         0      6      0           0         0          0        0         0     0 19
05:15 PM        0        0           0      1         0     0       1       0          0            1        0     0     0       1       0        0            0      0       0      0      0      0         0           0         0         0         0      0      0        0           2            0     0         0      2      0           0         0          0        0         0     0 4
05:30 PM        0        0           1      0         0     0       1       0          0            5        0     0     0       5       0        0            0      0       1      0      1      0         0           0         0         0         0      0      0        2           4            0     2         0      8      0           0         0          0        0         0     0 15
05:45 PM        0        0           1      0         0     0       1       0          0            6        0     0     0       6       0        0            0      0       0      0      0      0         0           0         0         0         0      0      0        0           3            0     0         0      3      0           0         0          0        0         0     0 10
 Tota
       0 0 3 4 0 0                                                  7 0 0                           18       0 1 0 19 0 0 0 0 1 0                                                           1 1 0 1 0 0 0                                                     2 0 7                       10           0 2 0 19 0 0 0 0 0 0                                                                    0 48
     l

     Grand
                0 0                  13     10        0 0 23 0 1                                    42       0 1 0 44 0 5 0 2 1 0                                                           8      15        0 7 0 0 0 22 0 9                                                             26           0 5 0 40 0 0 0 1 0 0                                                                    1       138
      Total

                                 56.        43.                                                     95.                                           62.                         12.                  68.                   31.                                                  22.                            12.                                                      10
 Apprch %       0 0                                   0 0                   0          2.3                   0    2.3
                                                                                                                          0               0
                                                                                                                                                               0      25             0                       0                     0 0 0                             0                    65           0               0             0 0 0                                     0 0
                                      5          5                                                   5                                             5                            5                   2                     8                                                    5                                  5                                                    0

                                                                                                    30.                                                                                            10.                                                                                    18.
 Total %        0 0              9.4        7.2
                                                        0     0
                                                                   16.7     0          0.7                   0    0.7
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                31.9     0        3.6
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                      1.4     0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                           5.8               0           5.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0          0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15.9    0        6.5                      0     3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0   29      0 0 0                            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.7
                                                                                                     4                                                                                              9                                                                                      8




                         North Spring Mill
                                                                                  Lancaster Avenue                                                 Aldwyn Lane                                                    Sproul Road                                             Lancaster Avenue                                                       Kenilworth Road
                              Road
                                                                                     Westbound                                                    Northwestbound                                                  Northbound                                                 Eastbound                                                           Southeastbound
                           Southbound
                 L to                                R to                                                 T to          R to                            L to                R to    R to            L to                       T to        R to                                 L to            T to                                  L to         L to                                R to
                              L to        T to              R to    App.     L to            L to                R to            App.     L to                     T to                     App.                  L to                                R to    App.    L to                                 R to       R to    App.                             T to         R to               App.       Int.
   Start Time    Lan                                 Lan                                                  Lan           SM                              Lan                 SM      Lan             Lan                        SM          Lan                                  SM              Lan                                   SM           Lan                                 Lan
                              Ald         Spr               Ken     Total        Ald         Spr                 Ken             Total    Spr                      Ken                     Total              Ken                                     Ald    Total   Ken                                   Ald        Spr    Total                             Ald          Spr               Total     Total
                     c                                 c                                                    c             ill                             c                   ill     c                  c                       ill         c                                      ill           c                                        ill         c                                 c

Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM 0 0 1 3 0            4 0 0 6 0 1           7 0 0                                                                                                          0        0       0       0          1         0             1           0          0       2      0             5            1          0          0       6       0               0        0            0          0       0       19
 05:15 PM 0 0 0 1 0            1 0 0 1 0 0           1 0 0                                                                                                          0        0       0       0       0            0             0           0          0       0      0             0            2          0          0       2       0               0        0            0          0       0        4
 05:30 PM 0 0 1 0 0            1 0 0 5 0 0           5 0 0                                                                                                          0        0       1       1       0            0             0           0          0       0      0             2            4          0          2       8       0               0        0            0          0       0       15
 05:45 PM 0 0 1 0 0            1 0 0 6 0 0           6 0 0                                                                                                          0        0       0       0       0            0             0           0          0       0      0             0            3          0          0       3       0               0        0            0          0       0       10
        Total
                     0         0           3          4      0        7          0            0           18      0      1        19          0          0          0        0       1        1          1         0            1           0          0        2         0         7           10          0          2      19           0           0        0            0          0        0       48
      Volume

 % App. Total                             42.9       57.1
                                                              0                   0            0
                                                                                                          94.7
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                        5.3                                                         100             50             0           50           0          0                  0     36.8            52.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0           0         0            0          0

         PHF
                 .000         .000        .750       .333   .000   .438      .000            .000         .750   .000   .250    .679      .000         .000        .000     .000    .250   .250     .250      .000             .250        .000       .000   .250    .000       .350            .625       .000       .250   .594    .000          .000        .000         .000       .000   .000     .632




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      117
                                                                       F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                      105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                     Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster & Ithan Avenues                                                                                                                                            File Name              : 02-30IthanPM
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code              : 00000000
EB Peds = diag peds NE-SW                                                                                                                                            Start Date             : 11/15/2012
WB Peds = diag peds NW-SE                                                                                                                                            Page No                :1
                                                                           Groups Printed- cars - HV
                       Ithan Avenue                             Lancaster Avenue                 Ithan Avenue                                                          Lancaster Avenue
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                      Northbound                                                              Eastbound
                                                                             NW-SE                                                                                                  NE-SW
 Start Time    Left Thru     Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru   Right            Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right   Peds   App. Total    Left Thru         Right            Peds    App. Total     Int. Total
                                                                              Peds                                                                                                   Peds

 04:00 PM       11     26     10       6       53         19   141     3      67        10    240          23      39          22      0       84             13     208      5       4       43      273             650
 04:15 PM       15     50     26       3       94         12   153     5      81        13    264           8      36          15      0       59             19     174     11       1       30      235             652
 04:30 PM       12     43     23       1       79         17   209    15      45        13    299          12      26          17      0       55             12     188     13       1       29      243             676
 04:45 PM       18     49     20       1       88         19   124    10      72        11    236          15      22          12      0       49             24     193     16       5       31      269             642
     Total      56    168     79      11      314         67   627    33     265        47   1039          58     123          66      0      247             68     763     45      11      133     1020            2620

 05:00 PM       10     58     19       2       89         21   197     6      81        14    319          13      33          19      1       66             25     211     17        2      61      316             790
 05:15 PM       16     55     26       1       98         22   178     8     175        14    397          21      38          22      6       87             22     243     18        3      84      370             952
 05:30 PM       25     61     20       0      106         18   166     6      99         4    293          13      20          20      0       53             14     264     31        4      69      382             834
 05:45 PM       14     58      8       1       81         34   143    11     104        12    304          16      32          15      0       63             19     219     25        0      88      351             799
     Total      65    232     73       4      374         95   684    31     459        44   1313          63     123          76      7      269             80     937     91        9     302     1419            3375

 Grand Total   121    400    152       15     688        162 1311      64 724          91    2352         121     246        142       7      516         148 1700          136      20 435          2439            5995
 Apprch %      17.6   58.1   22.1     2.2                6.9 55.7     2.7 30.8        3.9                 23.4    47.7       27.5    1.4                  6.1 69.7          5.6     0.8 17.8
  Total %        2    6.7    2.5     0.3     11.5        2.7 21.9     1.1 12.1        1.5     39.2          2     4.1        2.4     0.1      8.6         2.5 28.4          2.3     0.3 7.3          40.7
      cars     120    392    152       15     679        162 1274      63 724          91    2314         121     239        141       7      508         146 1675          136      20 435          2412            5913
   % cars      99.2    98    100     100     98.7        100 97.2    98.4 100         100     98.4        100     97.2       99.3    100     98.4         98.6       98.5   100     100 100          98.9            98.6
       HV        1      8      0        0       9          0   37       1    0          0       38          0           7       1      0        8               2      25     0       0    0           27              82
    % HV       0.8      2      0        0     1.3          0 2.8      1.6    0          0      1.6          0         2.8     0.7      0      1.6             1.4     1.5     0       0    0          1.1             1.4




                          Ithan Avenue                   Lancaster Avenue                                               Ithan Avenue                                    Lancaster Avenue
                           Southbound                       Westbound                                                    Northbound                                        Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total                             Left         Thru Right App. Total                      Left Thru Right App. Total                    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM        10       58      19        87     21     197      6    224                                   13          33       19             65              25     211         17          253                 629
    05:15 PM        16       55      26        97     22     178      8    208                                   21          38       22                 81       22        243         18          283                 669
    05:30 PM        25       61      20       106     18     166      6    190                                13              20       20           53            14        264         31           309              658
    05:45 PM        14       58       8        80     34     143     11    188                                16              32       15           63            19         219       25            263              594
 Total Volume       65      232      73       370     95     684     31    810                                63             123       76          262            80         937       91           1108             2550
 % App. Total     17.6     62.7    19.7             11.7    84.4    3.8                                       24            46.9       29                        7.2        84.6      8.2
          PHF     .650     .951    .702      .873   .699    .868   .705   .904                              .750            .809     .864         .809          .800        .887     .734           .896             .953
          cars      65      228      73       366     95     667     30    792                                63             119       76          258            78         925       91           1094             2510
        % cars     100     98.3     100      98.9    100    97.5   96.8   97.8                               100            96.7      100         98.5          97.5        98.7      100           98.7             98.4
           HV         0       4       0         4      0       17     1     18                                 0               4        0            4             2          12        0             14               40
         % HV         0     1.7       0       1.1      0      2.5   3.2    2.2                                 0             3.3        0          1.5           2.5         1.3        0            1.3              1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    118
                                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                       105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                      Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster & Ithan Avenues                                                                                                                                           File Name              : 02-30IthanPM
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code              : 00000000
EB Peds = diag peds NE-SW                                                                                                                                           Start Date             : 11/15/2012
WB Peds = diag peds NW-SE                                                                                                                                           Page No                :1
                                                                              Groups Printed- HV
                       Ithan Avenue                             Lancaster Avenue                Ithan Avenue                                                          Lancaster Avenue
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                     Northbound                                                              Eastbound
                                                                              NW-SE                                                                                                NE-SW
 Start Time    Left Thru     Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru    Right            Peds   App. Total   Left Thru       Right     Peds   App. Total   Left Thru         Right           Peds    App. Total     Int. Total
                                                                               Peds                                                                                                 Peds

 04:00 PM        1      0       0      0           1       0     4       0       0        0        4         0       0           0     0           0          0       4       0       0      0          4               9
 04:15 PM        0      2       0      0           2       0     4       0       0        0        4         0       1           1     0           2          0       3       0       0      0          3              11
 04:30 PM        0      1       0      0           1       0     9       0       0        0        9         0       1           0     0           1          0       2       0       0      0          2              13
 04:45 PM        0      1       0      0           1       0     3       0       0        0        3         0       1           0     0           1          0       4       0       0      0          4               9
     Total       1      4       0      0           5       0    20       0       0        0       20         0       3           1     0           4          0      13       0       0      0         13              42

 05:00 PM        0      1       0      0           1       0     5       0       0        0        5         0       0           0     0           0          0       4       0       0      0          4              10
 05:15 PM        0      1       0      0           1       0     5       1       0        0        6         0       2           0     0           2          1       3       0       0      0          4              13
 05:30 PM        0      1       0      0           1       0     4       0       0        0        4         0       0           0     0           0          0       4       0       0      0          4               9
 05:45 PM        0      1       0      0           1       0     3       0       0        0        3         0       2           0     0           2          1       1       0       0      0          2               8
     Total       0      4       0      0           4       0    17       1       0        0       18         0       4           0     0           4          2      12       0       0      0         14              40

 Grand Total     1      8       0      0           9       0    37       1       0        0       38         0       7           1     0           8           2     25       0       0      0         27              82
 Apprch %      11.1   88.9      0      0                   0   97.4    2.6       0        0                  0   87.5      12.5        0                     7.4    92.6      0       0      0
  Total %      1.2    9.8       0      0        11         0   45.1    1.2       0        0    46.3          0      8.5     1.2        0       9.8           2.4    30.5      0       0      0      32.9




                          Ithan Avenue                   Lancaster Avenue                                             Ithan Avenue                                     Lancaster Avenue
                           Southbound                       Westbound                                                  Northbound                                         Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total                              Left      Thru Right App. Total                       Left Thru Right App. Total                   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0       1       0         1      0       5      0      5                                 0            0           0                0           0        4        0              4                 10
    05:15 PM          0       1       0         1      0       5      1      6                                 0            2           0                2           1        3        0             4                  13
    05:30 PM          0       1       0         1      0       4      0      4                                 0             0          0                0        0           4        0             4                   9
    05:45 PM          0       1       0         1      0       3      0      3                                 0             2          0                2        1           1        0             2                   8
 Total Volume         0       4       0         4      0      17      1     18                                 0             4          0                4        2          12        0            14                  40
 % App. Total         0     100       0                0    94.4    5.6                                        0           100          0                      14.3        85.7        0
          PHF     .000     1.00    .000      1.00   .000    .850   .250   .750                              .000          .500       .000         .500         .500        .750     .000          .875               .769




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  119
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                         105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                        Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster Avenue & Lowrys Lane                                                                                                          File Name         : 03-30LowrPM
                                                                                                                                        Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                        Start Date        : 11/8/2012
                                                                                                                                        Page No           :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Lowrys Lane                          Lancaster Avenue                  Lowrys Lane                                     Lancaster Avenue
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds               App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds        App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM      17   17     3     1        38         4     226    4     1    235      13    11     6    3                   33         0 254      8     1           263           569
  04:15 PM      13     6    3     0        22         3     200    0     0    203       3     2     6    8                   19         3 246      6     3           258           502
  04:30 PM      22   18     2     1        43         7     200    1     0    208       5     8     4    4                   21         1 220      9     0           230           502
  04:45 PM      13   11     1     0        25         3     199    1     1    204      10     4     8   10                   32         1 232      8     0           241           502
      Total     65   52     9     2       128        17     825    6     2    850      31    25    24   25                  105         5 952     31     4           992          2075

  05:00 PM      30    24     2     0       56         4    265      1      0    270     4       10         3       2          19        0    278      8       0     286            631
  05:15 PM      32    12     3     0       47         5    223      0      0    228     7       12         1       7          27        0    327      3       0     330            632
  05:30 PM      18    20     2     2       42         4    191      1      0    196     4        8         3       7          22        1    261      4       0     266            526
  05:45 PM      16    13     3     0       32         2    208      2      0    212     4        5         8       3          20        1    272      7       0     280            544
      Total     96    69    10     2      177        15    887      4      0    906    19       35        15      19          88        2    1138    22       0    1162           2333

 Grand Total161 121         19     4      305        32    1712    10      2   1756     50   60   39   44                   193          7 2090   53        4      2154           4408
  Apprch % 52.8 39.7       6.2   1.3                1.8    97.5   0.6    0.1          25.9 31.1 20.2 22.8                              0.3   97  2.5      0.2
   Total %  3.7  2.7       0.4   0.1      6.9       0.7    38.8   0.2      0   39.8    1.1  1.4  0.9    1                   4.4        0.2 47.4  1.2      0.1      48.9
       cars 161 121         19     4      305        32    1681    10      2   1725     47   60   37   44                   188          6 2065   49        4      2124           4342
    % cars 100 100         100   100      100       100    98.2   100    100   98.2     94 100 94.9 100                    97.4       85.7 98.8 92.5      100      98.6           98.5
        HV    0    0         0     0        0         0      31     0      0     31      3    0    2    0                     5          1   25    4        0        30             66
     % HV     0    0         0     0        0         0     1.8     0      0    1.8      6    0  5.1    0                   2.6       14.3  1.2  7.5        0       1.4            1.5




                          Lowrys Lane                     Lancaster Avenue                      Lowrys Lane                                Lancaster Avenue
                          Southbound                         Westbound                          Northbound                                    Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total         Left    Thru Right             App. Total      Left Thru Right App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM        30       24       2        56       4     265      1    270             4        10          3            17         0     278        8        286              629
    05:15 PM        32       12       3        47       5     223      0    228             7        12          1            20         0     327       3         330             625
    05:30 PM        18       20       2        40       4     191      1    196           4         8            3            15         1     261       4         266             517
    05:45 PM        16       13       3        32       2     208      2    212           4         5            8            17         1     272       7         280             541
 Total Volume       96       69      10       175      15     887      4    906          19        35            15           69         2    1138      22        1162            2312
 % App. Total     54.9     39.4     5.7               1.7    97.9    0.4               27.5      50.7          21.7                    0.2    97.9     1.9
          PHF     .750     .719    .833      .781   .750     .837   .500   .839        .679      .729          .469        .863       .500    .870    .688        .880            .919
          cars      96       69      10       175      15     875      4    894          17        35            15          67          2    1128      20        1150            2286
        % cars     100      100     100       100    100     98.6    100   98.7        89.5       100           100        97.1        100    99.1    90.9        99.0            98.9
           HV         0       0       0         0       0       12     0     12           2         0             0           2          0      10       2          12              26
         % HV         0       0       0         0       0      1.4     0    1.3        10.5         0             0         2.9          0     0.9     9.1         1.0             1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                 120
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                         105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                        Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster Avenue & Lowrys Lane                                                                                                          File Name          : 03-30LowrPM
                                                                                                                                        Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                                        Start Date         : 11/8/2012
                                                                                                                                        Page No            :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Lowrys Lane                          Lancaster Avenue                  Lowrys Lane                                     Lancaster Avenue
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds               App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       6    0     0        6     1     0    1     0                      2       0     1    1     0               2            10
  04:15 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       7    0     0        7     0     0    0     0                      0       1     7    1     0               9            16
  04:30 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       2    0     0        2     0     0    1     0                      1       0     2    0     0               2             5
  04:45 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       4    0     0        4     0     0    0     0                      0       0     5    0     0               5             9
      Total      0     0    0     0           0       0      19    0     0       19     1     0    2     0                      3       1   15     2     0              18            40

  05:00 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0       3     0      0      3    0        0      0           0            0       0      1       0       0         1             4
  05:15 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0       3     0      0      3    2        0      0           0            2       0      3       0       0         3             8
  05:30 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0       3     0      0      3    0        0      0           0            0       0      2       1       0         3             6
  05:45 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0       3     0      0      3    0        0      0           0            0       0      4       1       0         5             8
      Total      0     0     0     0          0       0      12     0      0     12    2        0      0           0            2       0     10       2       0        12            26

 Grand Total     0     0     0     0          0       0     31      0      0     31     3       0       2          0            5       1   25    4            0        30            66
  Apprch %       0     0     0     0                  0    100      0      0           60       0      40          0                  3.3 83.3 13.3            0
   Total %       0     0     0     0          0       0     47      0      0     47   4.5       0       3          0         7.6      1.5 37.9  6.1            0     45.5




                          Lowrys Lane                    Lancaster Avenue                       Lowrys Lane                               Lancaster Avenue
                          Southbound                        Westbound                           Northbound                                   Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left     Thru Right             App. Total     Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0       0       0         0      0       3      0      3              0      0           0                0        0         1       0            1                4
    05:15 PM          0       0       0         0      0       3      0      3              2      0           0                2        0         3       0            3                8
    05:30 PM          0       0       0         0      0       3      0      3           0         0           0                0        0         2       1            3               6
    05:45 PM          0       0       0         0      0       3      0      3           0         0           0                0        0         4      1             5               8
 Total Volume         0       0       0         0      0      12      0     12           2         0           0                2        0       10       2           12               26
 % App. Total         0       0       0                0     100      0                100         0           0                         0     83.3    16.7
          PHF     .000     .000    .000      .000   .000    1.00   .000   1.00        .250      .000        .000           .250       .000     .625    .500        .600             .813




                                                                                                                                                                                  121
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster & Garrett Avenues                                                                                           File Name     : 04-30GarPM
                                                                                                                      Site Code     : 21102772
                                                                                                                      Start Date    : 11/8/2012
                                                                                                                      Page No       :1
                                                                Groups Printed- cars - HV
                            Lancaster Avenue                           Garrett Avenue                            Lancaster Avenue
                               Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
       Start Time      Left   Thru    Peds App. Total            Left   Right    Peds App. Total        Thru       Right   Peds App. Total      Int. Total
        04:00 PM         9       0       0         9               3      13         4       20            0         10       0        10              39
        04:15 PM        14       0       0        14               0       4         7       11            0         10       0        10              35
        04:30 PM         9       0       0         9               0       7         5       12            0          9       0         9              30
        04:45 PM        11       0       0        11               1       8         8       17            0          6       0         6              34
             Total      43       0       0        43               4      32        24       60            0         35       0        35             138

        05:00 PM         10         0        0          10         2           17            3    22      0          11       0            11         43
        05:15 PM         16         0        0          16         2            3            7    12      0          14       0            14         42
        05:30 PM         16         0        0          16         2            9            2    13      0          12       0            12         41
        05:45 PM          5         0        0           5         0            8            5    13      0           9       0             9         27
            Total        47         0        0          47         6           37           17    60      0          46       0            46        153

      Grand Total       90          0        0          90        10           69       41       120      0         81        0            81        291
       Apprch %        100          0        0                   8.3          57.5     34.2               0        100        0
         Total %       30.9         0        0        30.9       3.4          23.7     14.1      41.2     0        27.8       0       27.8
            cars        90          0        0         90         10           69       41       120      0         81        0        81            291
          % cars       100          0        0        100        100          100      100       100      0        100        0       100            100
             HV           0         0        0           0         0             0        0         0     0           0       0          0             0
           % HV           0         0        0           0         0             0        0         0     0           0       0          0             0




                                  Lancaster Avenue                          Garrett Avenue                  Lancaster Avenue
                                     Westbound                               Northbound                        Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Thru     App. Total          Left      Right     App. Total    Thru     Right    App. Total           Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
             05:00 PM            10           0            10             2            17         19         0           11          11               40
             05:15 PM            16           0            16             2             3          5         0           14          14               35
             05:30 PM            16           0            16             2             9         11         0           12          12               39
             05:45 PM             5           0             5             0             8          8         0            9           9               22
        Total Volume             47           0            47             6            37         43         0           46          46              136
         % App. Total           100           0                          14            86                    0          100
                  PHF          .734        .000          .734          .750          .544        .566     .000         .821         .821             .850
                   cars          47           0            47             6            37          43        0           46           46              136
                % cars          100           0           100           100           100         100        0          100          100              100
                    HV            0           0             0             0             0           0        0            0            0                0
                 % HV             0           0             0             0             0           0        0            0            0                0




                                                                                                                                                   122
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster & Garrett Avenues                                                                                         File Name     : 04-30GarPM
                                                                                                                    Site Code     : 21102772
                                                                                                                    Start Date    : 11/8/2012
                                                                                                                    Page No       :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- HV
                              Lancaster Avenue                        Garrett Avenue                           Lancaster Avenue
                                 Westbound                              Northbound                                Eastbound
       Start Time      Left     Thru    Peds App. Total         Left   Right    Peds App. Total        Thru      Right   Peds App. Total    Int. Total
        04:00 PM         0         0       0         0            0       0        0         0            0         0       0         0             0
        04:15 PM         0         0       0         0            0       0        0         0            0         0       0         0             0
        04:30 PM         0         0       0         0            0       0        0         0            0         0       0         0             0
        04:45 PM         0         0       0         0            0       0        0         0            0         0       0         0             0
             Total       0         0       0         0            0       0        0         0            0         0       0         0             0

        05:00 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0         0      0          0       0           0            0
        05:15 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0         0      0          0       0           0            0
        05:30 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0         0      0          0       0           0            0
        05:45 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0         0      0          0       0           0            0
            Total         0         0        0           0        0          0          0         0      0          0       0           0            0

      Grand Total         0         0        0           0        0          0          0         0      0          0       0           0            0
       Apprch %           0         0        0                    0          0          0                0          0       0
         Total %




                                  Lancaster Avenue                         Garrett Avenue                  Lancaster Avenue
                                     Westbound                              Northbound                        Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Thru     App. Total         Left      Right     App. Total    Thru     Right    App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
             05:00 PM             0           0            0             0          0             0        0            0           0                0
             05:15 PM             0           0            0             0          0             0        0            0           0                0
             05:30 PM             0           0            0             0          0             0        0            0           0                0
             05:45 PM             0           0            0             0          0             0        0            0           0                0
        Total Volume              0           0            0             0          0             0        0            0           0                0
        % App. Total              0           0                          0          0                      0            0
                  PHF          .000        .000         .000          .000       .000          .000     .000         .000        .000            .000




                                                                                                                                               123
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Sproul & Conestoga Roads                                                                                                                  File Name           : 05-SprConPM
                                                                                                                                          Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                          Start Date          : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                          Page No             :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Spoul Road                           Conestoga Road                     Spoul Road                                       Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                         Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                 App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds          App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM      20   48    20     0        88        11    112     8     0    131      16    32     2    0                     50        18   99    51     0             168           437
  04:15 PM       9   67    19     0        95         6    140    10     0    156      30    33     4    0                     67        24 115     40     0             179           497
  04:30 PM      12   55    20     0        87        10    114    11     0    135      23    35     5    0                     63        33 105     50     0             188           473
  04:45 PM       9   88    23     0       120        13    124    10     0    147      37    54     4    0                     95        24 130     67     0             221           583
      Total     50 258     82     0       390        40    490    39     0    569 106 154          15    0                    275        99 449 208        0             756          1990

  05:00 PM      13    75    24     0      112         7    125     6      0    138    27       41         7          0         75        29    126      54        0      209           534
  05:15 PM      11    72    25     0      108        11    155    11      0    177    19       36         9          0         64        32    136      58        0      226           575
  05:30 PM      13    69    11     0       93         3    119    15      0    137    30       61         8          0         99        19    140      49        1      209           538
  05:45 PM      13    71    21     0      105         6    115    14      0    135    27       44         3          0         74        23    139      53        0      215           529
      Total     50   287    81     0      418        27    514    46      0    587   103      182        27          0        312       103    541     214        1      859          2176

 Grand Total100 545 163            0      808         67   1004  85       0   1156    209 336    42                  0        587        202 990 422            1      1615           4166
  Apprch % 12.4 67.5 20.2          0                 5.8   86.9  7.4      0          35.6 57.2  7.2                  0                  12.5 61.3 26.1        0.1
   Total %  2.4 13.1  3.9          0     19.4        1.6   24.1    2      0   27.7      5  8.1    1                  0       14.1        4.8 23.8 10.1          0      38.8
       cars  99 537 161            0      797         62    986  82       0   1130    205 330    41                  0        576        197 984 420            1      1602           4105
    % cars   99 98.5 98.8          0     98.6       92.5   98.2 96.5      0   97.8   98.1 98.2 97.6                  0       98.1       97.5 99.4 99.5        100      99.2           98.5
        HV    1    8    2          0       11          5     18    3      0     26      4    6    1                  0         11          5    6    2          0        13             61
     % HV     1  1.5  1.2          0      1.4        7.5    1.8  3.5      0    2.2    1.9  1.8  2.4                  0        1.9        2.5  0.6  0.5          0       0.8            1.5




                           Spoul Road                     Conestoga Road                       Spoul Road                                    Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                        Westbound                          Northbound                                      Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left    Thru Right                App. Total      Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM        13       75      24       112       7    125     6    138           27          41          7               75        29    126          54        209              534
    05:15 PM        11       72      25       108      11    155    11    177           19          36          9               64        32    136          58        226              575
    05:30 PM        13       69      11        93       3    119    15    137           30          61           8              99        19     140       49          208             537
    05:45 PM        13       71      21       105       6    115    14    135           27        44             3             74         23     139       53          215             529
 Total Volume       50      287      81       418      27    514    46    587          103       182            27            312        103     541      214          858            2175
 % App. Total       12     68.7    19.4               4.6   87.6   7.8                  33      58.3           8.7                        12    63.1     24.9
          PHF     .962     .957    .810      .933   .614    .829  .767   .829         .858      .746          .750           .788       .805    .966     .922         .949            .946
          cars      50      284      80       414      24    510    45    579          102       179            27            308        102     538      213          853            2154
        % cars     100     99.0    98.8      99.0   88.9    99.2  97.8   98.6         99.0      98.4           100           98.7       99.0    99.4     99.5         99.4            99.0
           HV         0       3       1         4       3       4    1       8           1         3             0              4          1       3        1            5              21
         % HV         0     1.0     1.2       1.0   11.1      0.8  2.2     1.4         1.0       1.6             0            1.3        1.0     0.6      0.5          0.6             1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                     124
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Sproul & Conestoga Roads                                                                                                                File Name           : 05-SprConPM
                                                                                                                                        Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                        Start Date          : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                        Page No             :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Spoul Road                           Conestoga Road                     Spoul Road                                      Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       1     1    0     0           2       1       9    1     0       11     0     1    0     0                       1       2     2    0     0                  4         18
  04:15 PM       0     2    1     0           3       0       4    0     0        4     1     1    0     0                       2       2     0    0     0                  2         11
  04:30 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       1    1     0        2     2     0    0     0                       2       0     1    1     0                  2          6
  04:45 PM       0     2    0     0           2       1       0    0     0        1     0     1    1     0                       2       0     0    0     0                  0          5
      Total      1     5    1     0           7       2     14     2     0       18     3     3    1     0                       7       4     3    1     0                  8         40

  05:00 PM       0     2     1     0          3       0      1     1      0      2     1       3        0           0            4       0      1       0       0            1         10
  05:15 PM       0     1     0     0          1       2      2     0      0      4     0       0        0           0            0       0      1       0       0            1          6
  05:30 PM       0     0     0     0          0       1      1     0      0      2     0       0        0           0            0       0      0       1       0            1          3
  05:45 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0       0        0           0            0       1      1       0       0            2          2
      Total      0     3     1     0          4       3      4     1      0      8     1       3        0           0            4       1      3       1       0            5         21

 Grand Total     1    8    2       0        11    5   18    3             0     26    4    6             1          0          11    5    6    2                0        13            61
  Apprch %     9.1 72.7 18.2       0           19.2 69.2 11.5             0        36.4 54.5           9.1          0             38.5 46.2 15.4                0
   Total %     1.6 13.1  3.3       0        18  8.2 29.5  4.9             0   42.6  6.6  9.8           1.6          0          18  8.2  9.8  3.3                0     21.3




                           Spoul Road                    Conestoga Road                        Spoul Road                                  Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                                    Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left     Thru Right               App. Total     Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0       2       1         3      0      1     1        2             1       3            0                4       0          1       0            1              10
    05:15 PM          0       1       0         1      2      2     0        4           0        0             0                0       0        1         0            1               6
    05:30 PM          0       0       0         0      1      1     0        2           0        0             0                0       0        0         1            1               3
    05:45 PM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0        0             0                0       1        1        0             2               2
 Total Volume         0       3       1         4      3      4     1        8           1        3             0                4        1       3        1             5              21
 % App. Total         0      75      25             37.5     50  12.5                   25       75             0                        20      60       20
          PHF     .000     .375    .250      .333   .375   .500  .250    .500         .250     .250          .000           .250       .250    .750     .250        .625             .525




                                                                                                                                                                                   125
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga & Spring Mill Roads                                                                                   File Name       : 06-ConSpMPM
                                                                                                                Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date      : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                Page No         :1
                                                                Groups Printed- cars - HV
                              Spring Mill Road                        Conestoga Road                           Conestoga Road
                                Southbound                               Westbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time      Left    Right     Peds App. Total        Thru    Right    Peds App. Total       Left     Thru    Peds App. Total   Int. Total
        04:00 PM         5         3        0         8          165        1        0      166          1       122       0       123          297
        04:15 PM         2         3        0         5          141        1        0      142          1       129       0       130          277
        04:30 PM         2         6        0         8          141        2        0      143          3       128       0       131          282
        04:45 PM         0         2        0         2          147        1        0      148          1       148       0       149          299
             Total       9        14        0        23          594        5        0      599          6       527       0       533         1155

        05:00 PM          3         1        0           4       142            0           0   142      2       151        0       153        299
        05:15 PM          3         2        0           5       172            1           0   173      3       156        0       159        337
        05:30 PM          5         5        0          10       144            0           0   144      4       173        0       177        331
        05:45 PM          6         1        0           7       149            2           0   151      1       166        0       167        325
            Total        17         9        0          26       607            3           0   610     10       646        0       656       1292

      Grand Total        26      23          0          49      1201             8          0   1209    16      1173        0     1189        2447
       Apprch %        53.1     46.9         0                  99.3           0.7          0           1.3     98.7        0
         Total %        1.1      0.9         0           2      49.1           0.3          0   49.4    0.7     47.9        0     48.6
            cars         25      21          0         46       1174             8          0   1182    15      1163        0     1178        2406
          % cars       96.2     91.3         0        93.9      97.8           100          0   97.8   93.8     99.1        0     99.1        98.3
             HV           1        2         0           3        27             0          0     27      1       10        0       11          41
           % HV         3.8      8.7         0         6.1       2.2             0          0    2.2    6.2      0.9        0      0.9         1.7




                                   Spring Mill Road                     Conestoga Road                      Conestoga Road
                                     Southbound                           Westbound                           Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Right    App. Total       Thru     Right   App. Total          Left     Thru   App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
             05:00 PM             3           1             4           142             0       142        2         151         153           299
             05:15 PM             3           2             5           172             1       173        3         156         159           337
             05:30 PM             5           5            10           144             0       144        4         173         177           331
             05:45 PM             6           1             7           149             2       151        1         166         167           325
        Total Volume             17           9            26           607             3       610       10         646         656          1292
         % App. Total          65.4        34.6                        99.5           0.5                1.5        98.5
                  PHF          .708        .450          .650          .882          .375       .882    .625        .934         .927         .958
                   cars          17           8            25           601             3        604      10         644          654         1283
                % cars          100        88.9          96.2          99.0           100       99.0     100        99.7         99.7         99.3
                    HV            0           1             1              6            0          6       0            2           2            9
                 % HV             0        11.1           3.8            1.0            0        1.0       0          0.3         0.3          0.7




                                                                                                                                             126
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga & Spring Mill Roads                                                                                File Name      : 06-ConSpMPM
                                                                                                             Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                             Start Date     : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                             Page No        :1
                                                                   Groups Printed- HV
                              Spring Mill Road                        Conestoga Road                        Conestoga Road
                                Southbound                               Westbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time      Left    Right     Peds App. Total        Thru    Right    Peds App. Total    Left     Thru    Peds App. Total      Int. Total
        04:00 PM         1         0        0         1           11       0        0        11       1         4       0         5              17
        04:15 PM         0         0        0         0            6       0        0         6       0         0       0         0               6
        04:30 PM         0         1        0         1            1       0        0         1       0         3       0         3               5
        04:45 PM         0         0        0         0            3       0        0         3       0         1       0         1               4
             Total       1         1        0         2           21       0        0        21       1         8       0         9              32

        05:00 PM          0         0        0           0        2           0          0      2     0         1       0            1             3
        05:15 PM          0         0        0           0        3           0          0      3     0         0       0            0             3
        05:30 PM          0         1        0           1        1           0          0      1     0         0       0            0             2
        05:45 PM          0         0        0           0        0           0          0      0     0         1       0            1             1
            Total         0         1        0           1        6           0          0      6     0         2       0            2             9

      Grand Total         1        2         0           3       27           0          0    27      1       10        0            11          41
       Apprch %        33.3     66.7         0                  100           0          0          9.1      90.9       0
         Total %        2.4      4.9         0         7.3      65.9          0          0   65.9   2.4      24.4       0       26.8




                                   Spring Mill Road                    Conestoga Road                    Conestoga Road
                                     Southbound                          Westbound                         Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Right    App. Total      Thru     Right   App. Total        Left     Thru   App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
             05:00 PM             0           0             0             2          0         2        0           1           1                  3
             05:15 PM             0           0             0             3          0         3        0           0           0                  3
             05:30 PM             0           1             1             1          0         1        0           0           0                  2
             05:45 PM             0           0             0             0          0         0        0           1           1                  1
        Total Volume              0           1             1             6          0         6        0           2           2                  9
         % App. Total             0         100                         100          0                  0         100
                  PHF          .000        .250          .250          .500       .000       .500    .000        .500         .500             .750




                                                                                                                                             127
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Ithan Avenue                                                                                                          File Name             : 07-ConIthPM
                                                                                                                                       Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                                       Start Date            : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                       Page No               :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Ithan Avenue                         Conestoga Road                    Ithan Avenue                                  Conestoga Road
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds             App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM      15   29    52     0        96         3     99     8     1    111       1     3     1    0                   5       19 111      2     0            132           344
  04:15 PM      13   18    43     1        75         2    111     9     1    123       0     7     2    0                   9       16 101      1     0            118           325
  04:30 PM      12   32    30     2        76         2    121     8     0    131       1     8     2    0                  11       15 112      0     0            127           345
  04:45 PM       8   23    36     0        67         2    107    12     0    121       2     5     0    0                   7       27 105      2     0            134           329
      Total     48 102 161        3       314         9    438    37     2    486       4    23     5    0                  32       77 429      5     0            511          1343

  05:00 PM      17    36    45     0       98         2    125    11      1    139     1        4       1          0         6       20    134      1        0      155           398
  05:15 PM       9    27    24     0       60         2    118     9      1    130     3        6       1          0        10       14    119      0        2      135           335
  05:30 PM      10    11    21     0       42         2    115     7      0    124     2        5       2          0         9       15    131      4        0      150           325
  05:45 PM      16    12    44     0       72         5    104    12      0    121     1        3       2          0         6       14    128      2        0      144           343
      Total     52    86   134     0      272        11    462    39      2    514     7       18       6          0        31       63    512      7        2      584          1401

 Grand Total100 188 295            3      586        20 900   76          4   1000     11   41   11                0        63       140 941        12     2      1095           2744
  Apprch % 17.1 32.1 50.3        0.5                  2   90  7.6       0.4          17.5 65.1 17.5                0                12.8 85.9      1.1   0.2
   Total %  3.6  6.9 10.8        0.1     21.4       0.7 32.8  2.8       0.1   36.4    0.4  1.5  0.4                0      2.3        5.1 34.3      0.4   0.1      39.9
       cars 100 187 285            3      575        20 885   73          4    982      9   40   11                0      60         138 931        12     2      1083           2700
    % cars 100 99.5 96.6         100     98.1       100 98.3 96.1       100   98.2   81.8 97.6 100                 0     95.2       98.6 98.9      100   100      98.9           98.4
        HV    0    1   10          0       11         0   15    3         0     18      2    1    0                0        3          2   10        0     0        12             44
     % HV     0  0.5  3.4          0      1.9         0  1.7  3.9         0    1.8   18.2  2.4    0                0      4.8        1.4  1.1        0     0       1.1            1.6




                          Ithan Avenue                    Conestoga Road                       Ithan Avenue                              Conestoga Road
                           Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                                 Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left     Thru Right App. Total                Left Thru Right App. Total               Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM        17       36      45        98       2    125    11    138              1        4         1               6       20     134         1        155              397
    05:15 PM          9      27      24        60       2    118     9    129              3        6         1             10        14     119         0        133             332
    05:30 PM        10       11      21        42       2    115     7    124            2         5          2              9        15     131         4        150             325
    05:45 PM        16       12      44        72       5    104    12    121            1         3           2             6        14     128        2         144             343
 Total Volume       52       86     134       272      11    462    39    512            7        18           6            31        63     512        7         582            1397
 % App. Total     19.1     31.6    49.3               2.1   90.2   7.6                22.6      58.1        19.4                    10.8      88      1.2
          PHF     .765     .597    .744      .694   .550    .924  .813   .928         .583      .750        .750         .775       .788    .955     .438        .939            .880
          cars      52       86     129       267      11    462    38    511            5        18           6           29         63     510        7         580            1387
        % cars     100      100    96.3      98.2    100     100  97.4   99.8         71.4       100         100         93.5        100    99.6      100        99.7            99.3
           HV         0       0       5         5       0      0     1       1           2         0           0            2          0       2        0           2              10
         % HV         0       0     3.7       1.8       0      0   2.6     0.2        28.6         0           0          6.5          0     0.4        0         0.3             0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                128
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Ithan Avenue                                                                                                        File Name            : 07-ConIthPM
                                                                                                                                     Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                                     Start Date           : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                     Page No              :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Ithan Avenue                         Conestoga Road                    Ithan Avenue                                Conestoga Road
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds        App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0     0    3     0           3       0       7    1     0        8     0     1     0    0                  1       0     2    0     0              2            14
  04:15 PM       0     0    1     0           1       0       5    1     0        6     0     0     0    0                  0       0     2    0     0              2             9
  04:30 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       1    0     0        1     0     0     0    0                  0       1     4    0     0              5             6
  04:45 PM       0     1    1     0           2       0       2    0     0        2     0     0     0    0                  0       1     0    0     0              1             5
      Total      0     1    5     0           6       0     15     2     0       17     0     1     0    0                  1       2     8    0     0             10            34

  05:00 PM       0     0     2     0          2       0      0     0      0      0     0       0      0          0          0       0      1       0      0            1          3
  05:15 PM       0     0     2     0          2       0      0     1      0      1     2       0      0          0          2       0      1       0      0            1          6
  05:30 PM       0     0     1     0          1       0      0     0      0      0     0       0      0          0          0       0      0       0      0            0          1
  05:45 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0       0      0          0          0       0      0       0      0            0          0
      Total      0     0     5     0          5       0      0     1      0      1     2       0      0          0          2       0      2       0      0            2         10

 Grand Total     0     1   10      0        11        0   15    3         0     18    2    1          0          0          3   2   10             0      0        12            44
  Apprch %       0   9.1 90.9      0                  0 83.3 16.7         0        66.7 33.3          0          0           16.7 83.3             0      0
   Total %       0   2.3 22.7      0        25        0 34.1  6.8         0   40.9  4.5  2.3          0          0       6.8  4.5 22.7             0      0     27.3




                          Ithan Avenue                   Conestoga Road                        Ithan Avenue                           Conestoga Road
                           Southbound                      Westbound                            Northbound                              Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left      Thru Right App. Total             Left Thru Right App. Total               Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0       0       2         2      0      0     0        0             0      0          0              0        0         1      0            1                3
    05:15 PM          0       0       2         2      0      0     1        1             2      0          0              2        0       1        0            1                6
    05:30 PM          0       0       1         1      0      0     0        0           0        0          0              0        0       0        0            0               1
    05:45 PM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0        0          0              0        0       0        0            0               0
 Total Volume         0       0       5         5      0      0     1        1           2        0          0              2        0       2        0            2              10
 % App. Total         0       0     100                0      0   100                  100        0          0                       0     100        0
          PHF     .000     .000    .625      .625   .000   .000  .250    .250         .250     .000       .000         .250       .000    .500     .000       .500             .417




                                                                                                                                                                             129
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Lowrys Lane/Strathmore                                                                                              File Name          : 08-ConLowPM
Drive                                                                                                                                Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                                     Start Date         : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                     Page No            :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Lowrys Lane                          Conestoga Road                  Strathmore Drive                                Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds             App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds        App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       3     7   13     2         25        6    115     5     0    126       2     5     5    0                  12       15 101      2     0           118           281
  04:15 PM       0     5    7     0         12        3    107     1     0    111       3     2     8    1                  14        8 110      4     0           122           259
  04:30 PM       4     7   18     0         29        2    108     4     1    115       9     4     5    0                  18       12 111      4     0           127           289
  04:45 PM       1     1    9     0         11        6    111     1     0    118       6     1     2    0                   9       12 103      5     0           120           258
      Total      8   20    47     2         77       17    441    11     1    470      20    12    20    1                  53       47 425     15     0           487          1087

  05:00 PM       3     4    17     0        24        4    131     3      0    138     1       5        4          0        10        9    115      2       0      126           298
  05:15 PM       2     3     9     0        14        5    111     5      0    121     4       2        3          0         9       11    123      5       0      139           283
  05:30 PM       3     3    11     0        17        3    109     3      0    115     2       1        6          0         9        8    119      5       1      133           274
  05:45 PM       1     7    15     0        23        5    105     5      0    115     8       0        4          1        13        8    137      5       0      150           301
      Total      9    17    52     0        78       17    456    16      0    489    15       8       17          1        41       36    494     17       1      548          1156

 Grand Total 17   37   99          2      155         34 897   27         1    959     35   20   37             2           94        83 919    32        1      1035           2243
  Apprch %   11 23.9 63.9        1.3                 3.5 93.5  2.8      0.1          37.2 21.3 39.4           2.1                      8 88.8  3.1      0.1
   Total %  0.8  1.6  4.4        0.1      6.9        1.5   40  1.2        0   42.8    1.6  0.9  1.6           0.1         4.2        3.7   41  1.4        0      46.1
       cars  16   33   98          2      149         32 883   26         1    942     35   20   35             2         92          82 907    31        1      1021           2204
    % cars 94.1 89.2   99        100     96.1       94.1 98.4 96.3      100   98.2    100 100 94.6            100        97.9       98.8 98.7 96.9      100      98.6           98.3
        HV    1    4    1          0        6          2   14    1        0     17      0    0    2             0           2          1   12    1        0        14             39
     % HV   5.9 10.8    1          0      3.9        5.9  1.6  3.7        0    1.8      0    0  5.4             0         2.1        1.2  1.3  3.1        0       1.4            1.7




                          Lowrys Lane                     Conestoga Road                   Strathmore Drive                              Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                        Westbound                        Northbound                                    Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total                    Left Thru Right App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          3       4      17        24       4    131     3    138              1       5          4             10         9    115         2        126              298
    05:15 PM          2       3       9        14       5    111     5    121              4      2           3              9        11    123         5        139              283
    05:30 PM          3       3      11        17       3    109     3    115              2      1           6              9         8    119        5         132              273
    05:45 PM          1       7      15        23       5    105     5    115              8      0            4            12         8     137       5         150              300
 Total Volume         9      17      52        78      17    456    16    489           15        8           17            40        36     494      17         547            1154
 % App. Total     11.5     21.8    66.7               3.5   93.3   3.3                37.5       20         42.5                     6.6    90.3     3.1
          PHF     .750     .607    .765      .813   .850    .870  .800   .886         .469     .400         .708         .833       .818    .901    .850        .912            .962
          cars        9      15      52        76      16    455    16    487           15        8           17           40         36     491      17         544            1147
        % cars     100     88.2     100      97.4   94.1    99.8   100   99.6          100      100          100          100        100    99.4     100        99.5            99.4
           HV         0       2       0         2       1       1    0       2           0        0            0            0          0       3       0           3               7
         % HV         0    11.8       0       2.6     5.9     0.2    0     0.4           0        0            0            0          0     0.6       0         0.5             0.6




                                                                                                                                                                               130
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                         105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                        Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Lowrys Lane/Strathmore                                                                                          File Name             : 08-ConLowPM
Drive                                                                                                                            Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date            : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                 Page No               :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Lowrys Lane                          Conestoga Road                  Strathmore Drive                            Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds          App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       1     0    1     0           2       0       5    1     0        6     0     0    1     0                1       1     2    0     0                3            12
  04:15 PM       0     1    0     0           1       1       4    0     0        5     0     0    1     0                1       0     0    0     0                0             7
  04:30 PM       0     1    0     0           1       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0     0                0       0     6    0     0                6             8
  04:45 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       3    0     0        3     0     0    0     0                0       0     1    1     0                2             5
      Total      1     2    1     0           4       1     13     1     0       15     0     0    2     0                2       1     9    1     0               11            32

  05:00 PM       0     0     0     0          0       1      0     0       0      1    0     0      0          0          0       0      0        0       0            0            1
  05:15 PM       0     2     0     0          2       0      1     0       0      1    0     0      0          0          0       0      2        0       0            2            5
  05:30 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0       0      0    0     0      0          0          0       0      0        0       0            0            0
  05:45 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0       0      0    0     0      0          0          0       0      1        0       0            1            1
      Total      0     2     0     0          2       1      1     0       0      2    0     0      0          0          0       0      3        0       0            3            7

 Grand Total      1    4    1      0          6  2   14             1      0     17    0     0     2           0          2       1   12           1      0        14            39
  Apprch %     16.7 66.7 16.7      0          11.8 82.4           5.9      0           0     0   100           0                7.1 85.7         7.1      0
   Total %      2.6 10.3  2.6      0     15.4  5.1 35.9           2.6      0   43.6    0     0   5.1           0       5.1      2.6 30.8         2.6      0     35.9




                          Lowrys Lane                    Conestoga Road                    Strathmore Drive                         Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                         Northbound                               Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total               Left Thru Right App. Total                 Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0       0       0         0      1      0     0        1           0      0          0              0        0         0        0            0                1
    05:15 PM          0       2       0         2      0      1     0        1           0      0          0              0        0         2        0            2                5
    05:30 PM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0          0            0                0
    05:45 PM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       1          0            1                1
 Total Volume         0       2       0         2      1      1     0        2           0      0          0              0        0       3          0            3                7
 % App. Total         0     100       0               50     50     0                    0      0          0                       0     100          0
          PHF     .000     .250    .000      .250   .250   .250  .000    .500         .000   .000       .000         .000       .000    .375       .000       .375             .350




                                                                                                                                                                             131
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Garrett Avenue/                                                                                                   File Name           : 09-ConGarPM
Williams Road                                                                                                                      Site Code           : 21102702
                                                                                                                                   Start Date          : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                   Page No             :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                     Garrett Avenue                        Conestoga Road                   Williams Road                                Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM      11     2    8     0        21         3    114     6     0    123       2     1     2    0                 5        7   94     6     1            108           257
  04:15 PM       3     6   15     1        25         5    107     1     0    113       1     1     5    3                10        8 116      1     1            126           274
  04:30 PM      11     3   17     1        32         6    111     6     0    123       5     2     3    2                12        7 108      4     1            120           287
  04:45 PM       9     7   13     0        29         1    104     3     1    109       4     2     2    0                 8       12   91     3     0            106           252
      Total     34   18    53     2       107        15    436    16     1    468      12     6    12    5                35       34 409     14     3            460          1070

  05:00 PM       9     3    10     0        22        6    147     7      0    160    5         0        4       8        17       13    111      1        0      125           324
  05:15 PM       6     2    16     0        24        2    118     4      0    124    3         0        1       4         8        4    135      0        0      139           295
  05:30 PM       5     1    11     0        17        2    103    10      0    115    3         0        3       2         8        4    117      1        0      122           262
  05:45 PM       7     6    14     0        27        2    118     7      2    129    5         1        3       3        12        5    125      7        0      137           305
      Total     27    12    51     0        90       12    486    28      2    528   16         1       11      17        45       26    488      9        0      523          1186

 Grand Total    61   30 104        2      197        27 922       44      3    996    28         7   23   22              80       60 897         23     3        983          2256
  Apprch %      31 15.2 52.8       1                2.7 92.6     4.4    0.3           35       8.8 28.8 27.5                      6.1 91.3       2.3   0.3
   Total %     2.7  1.3  4.6     0.1      8.7       1.2 40.9       2    0.1   44.1   1.2       0.3    1    1            3.5       2.7 39.8         1   0.1       43.6
       cars     61   30 104        2      197        27 922       44      3    996    28         7   23   22             80        60 897         23     3        983          2256
    % cars     100 100 100       100      100       100 100      100    100    100   100       100 100 100              100       100 100        100   100        100           100
        HV       0    0    0       0        0         0    0       0      0      0     0         0    0    0              0         0    0         0     0          0             0
     % HV        0    0    0       0        0         0    0       0      0      0     0         0    0    0              0         0    0         0     0          0             0




                         Garrett Avenue                   Conestoga Road                   Williams Road                              Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                        Westbound                       Northbound                                  Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left Thru Right App. Total                  Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          9       3      10        22       6    147     7    160              5        0          4            9      13     111          1        125              316
    05:15 PM          6       2      16        24       2    118     4    124            3          0           1          4         4     135         0        139             291
    05:30 PM          5       1      11        17       2    103    10    115            3          0           3          6         4     117         1        122             260
    05:45 PM          7       6      14        27       2    118     7    127            5          1           3          9         5     125         7        137             300
 Total Volume       27       12      51        90      12    486    28    526           16          1          11         28        26     488        9         523            1167
 % App. Total       30     13.3    56.7               2.3   92.4   5.3                57.1        3.6        39.3                    5    93.3      1.7
          PHF     .750     .500    .797      .833   .500    .827  .700   .822         .800       .250        .688      .778       .500    .904     .321        .941            .923
          cars      27       12      51        90      12    486    28    526           16          1          11        28         26     488        9         523            1167
        % cars     100      100     100       100    100     100   100    100          100        100         100       100        100     100      100         100             100
           HV         0       0       0         0       0      0     0       0           0          0           0         0          0       0        0           0               0
         % HV         0       0       0         0       0      0     0       0           0          0           0         0          0       0        0           0               0




                                                                                                                                                                              132
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Garrett Avenue/                                                                                                 File Name         : 09-ConGarPM
Williams Road                                                                                                                    Site Code         : 21102702
                                                                                                                                 Start Date        : 11/14/2012
                                                                                                                                 Page No           :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                     Garrett Avenue                        Conestoga Road                   Williams Road                              Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0                0       0     0    0     0               0            0
  04:15 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0                0       0     0    0     0               0            0
  04:30 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0                0       0     0    0     0               0            0
  04:45 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0                0       0     0    0     0               0            0
      Total      0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0                0       0     0    0     0               0            0

  05:00 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
  05:15 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
  05:30 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
  05:45 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
      Total      0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0

 Grand Total     0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
  Apprch %       0     0     0     0                  0      0     0      0            0     0      0          0                  0      0     0      0
   Total %




                         Garrett Avenue                  Conestoga Road                    Williams Road                            Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                        Northbound                                Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left Thru Right App. Total                Left Thru Right App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                0
    05:15 PM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                0
    05:30 PM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                0
    05:45 PM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                0
 Total Volume         0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                0
 % App. Total         0       0       0                0      0     0                    0      0          0                       0       0      0
          PHF     .000     .000    .000      .000   .000   .000  .000    .000         .000   .000       .000         .000       .000    .000   .000       .000             .000




                                                                                                                                                                         133
                                                               F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                          105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                         Philadelphia, PA 19147


Spring Mill and County Line Roads                                                                                                File Name           : 10-SpMCoLPM
                                                                                                                                 Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date          : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                                                 Page No             :1
                                                                      Groups Printed- cars - HV
                     County Line Road                       Spring MIll Road                County Line Road                            Spring MIll Road
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total           Left Thru Right Peds          App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM      13   54    13     0         80         9     59    10     0       78    13    46     9    0      68               15   55    20     6              96           322
  04:15 PM      11   45    13     1         70        11     65     9     0       85     9    45    17    0      71               16   74    22     1             113           339
  04:30 PM      10   61    10     0         81        11     52    12     0       75    18    40    12    0      70               17   80    16     6             119           345
  04:45 PM       9   48     8     2         67         9     45    15     0       69    17    33     8    0      58               16   60    30     3             109           303
      Total     43 208     44     3        298        40    221    46     0    307      57 164      46    0    267                64 269     88    16             437          1309

  05:00 PM      21   100    11     0       132         4     65      8      0     77    15      57        10          0    82     15     76     27         8      126           417
  05:15 PM      15   101    16     0       132        16     53     16      0     85    17      64        14          0    95     14     77     22         7      120           432
  05:30 PM      17    79     8     0       104        19     53     20      0     92    17      40         7          0    64     22     83     22         4      131           391
  05:45 PM      11   110     9     0       130        16     69      7      0     92    22      38         6          0    66     12     64     22         2      100           388
      Total     64   390    44     0       498        55    240     51      0    346    71     199        37          0   307     63    300     93        21      477          1628

 Grand Total107 598    88          3       796         95 461   97          0    653    128 363    83                 0   574     127 569 181          37         914          2937
  Apprch % 13.4 75.1 11.1        0.4                 14.5 70.6 14.9         0          22.3 63.2 14.5                 0          13.9 62.3 19.8         4
   Total %  3.6 20.4    3        0.1      27.1        3.2 15.7  3.3         0   22.2    4.4 12.4  2.8                 0   19.5    4.3 19.4  6.2       1.3        31.1
       cars 107 591    83          3       784         95 451   96          0    642    128 363    82                 0    573    127 555 180          37         899          2898
    % cars 100 98.8 94.3         100      98.5        100 97.8  99          0   98.3    100 100 98.8                  0   99.8    100 97.5 99.4       100        98.4          98.7
        HV    0    7    5          0        12          0   10    1         0     11      0    0    1                 0      1      0   14    1         0          15            39
     % HV     0  1.2  5.7          0       1.5          0  2.2    1         0    1.7      0    0  1.2                 0    0.2      0  2.5  0.6         0         1.6           1.3




                       County Line Road                  Spring MIll Road                    County Line Road                         Spring MIll Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                               Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total          Left Thru Right App. Total               Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM        21      100      11       132      4      65      8     77            15         57         10         82      15      76        27         118              409
    05:15 PM        15      101      16       132     16      53     16     85            17         64         14         95      14      77      22           113              425
    05:30 PM        17       79       8       104     19      53     20     92            17       40             7        64      22      83      22           127             387
    05:45 PM        11      110       9       130     16      69      7     92            22       38             6        66      12      64      22            98             386
 Total Volume       64      390      44       498     55    240      51    346            71      199            37       307      63     300      93           456            1607
 % App. Total     12.9     78.3     8.8             15.9   69.4   14.7                  23.1     64.8          12.1              13.8    65.8    20.4
          PHF     .762     .886    .688      .943   .724   .870   .638    .940          .807     .777          .661       .808   .716    .904    .861          .898            .945
          cars      64      386      41       491     55    234      51    340            71      199            37        307     63     296      93           452            1590
        % cars     100     99.0    93.2      98.6    100   97.5    100    98.3           100      100           100        100    100    98.7     100          99.1            98.9
           HV         0       4       3         7      0       6      0      6             0        0             0          0      0       4       0             4              17
         % HV         0     1.0     6.8       1.4      0     2.5      0    1.7             0        0             0          0      0     1.3       0           0.9             1.1




                                                                                                                                                                              134
                                                               F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                          105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                         Philadelphia, PA 19147


Spring Mill and County Line Roads                                                                                            File Name              : 10-SpMCoLPM
                                                                                                                             Site Code              : 00000000
                                                                                                                             Start Date             : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                                             Page No                :1
                                                                         Groups Printed- HV
                     County Line Road                       Spring MIll Road                County Line Road                        Spring MIll Road
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                             Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total       Left Thru Right Peds          App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0     1    1     0            2       0       1    1     0        2     0     0    0     0        0           0     2    0     0                2             6
  04:15 PM       0     1    0     0            1       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    1     0        1           0     3    1     0                4             7
  04:30 PM       0     0    1     0            1       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0     0        0           0     2    0     0                2             4
  04:45 PM       0     1    0     0            1       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0     0        0           0     3    0     0                3             5
      Total      0     3    2     0            5       0       4    1     0        5     0     0    1     0        1           0   10     1     0               11            22

  05:00 PM       0     1     0     0           1       0      2      0      0      2     0      0      0          0      0     0      0        0       0            0          3
  05:15 PM       0     1     3     0           4       0      1      0      0      1     0      0      0          0      0     0      2        0       0            2          7
  05:30 PM       0     1     0     0           1       0      3      0      0      3     0      0      0          0      0     0      2        0       0            2          6
  05:45 PM       0     1     0     0           1       0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0          0      0     0      0        0       0            0          1
      Total      0     4     3     0           7       0      6      0      0      6     0      0      0          0      0     0      4        0       0            4         17

 Grand Total     0    7    5       0         12        0   10        1      0     11     0      0     1           0      1     0   14           1      0        15            39
  Apprch %       0 58.3 41.7       0                   0 90.9      9.1      0            0      0   100           0            0 93.3         6.7      0
   Total %       0 17.9 12.8       0      30.8         0 25.6      2.6      0   28.2     0      0   2.6           0    2.6     0 35.9         2.6      0     38.5




                       County Line Road                  Spring MIll Road                    County Line Road                    Spring MIll Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                          Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total          Left Thru Right App. Total          Left Thru Right App. Total                 Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0       1       0         1      0      2       0      2             0       0          0         0       0         0        0            0                3
    05:15 PM          0       1       3         4      0      1       0      1             0       0          0         0       0         2        0            2                7
    05:30 PM          0       1       0         1      0      3       0      3             0       0          0         0       0       2          0            2               6
    05:45 PM          0       1       0         1      0      0       0      0             0       0          0         0       0       0          0            0               1
 Total Volume         0       4       3         7      0      6       0      6             0       0          0         0       0       4          0            4              17
 % App. Total         0    57.1    42.9                0    100       0                    0       0          0                 0     100          0
          PHF     .000     1.00    .250      .438   .000   .500   .000    .500          .000    .000       .000       .000   .000    .500       .000       .500             .607




                                                                                                                                                                          135
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan Avenue & County Line Road N                                                                                File Name         : 11-IthCoLNPM
                                                                                                                 Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                 Start Date        : 11/15/2012
                                                                                                                 Page No           :1
                                                                Groups Printed- cars - HV
                                Ithan Avenue                            Ithan Avenue                           County Line Road
                                 Southbound                              Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time      Thru     Right   Peds App. Total          Left   Thru     Peds App. Total       Left     Right    Peds App. Total     Int. Total
        04:00 PM         24        19      1        44            89       31        0      120         28         81       0       109            273
        04:15 PM         29        14      0        43            57       21        1       79         21         92       1       114            236
        04:30 PM         28        15      0        43            58       23        0       81         33         90       0       123            247
        04:45 PM         22        14      0        36            58       32        2       92         41         93       1       135            263
             Total      103        62      1       166           262      107        3      372        123       356        2       481           1019

        05:00 PM         42       14         0          56        86           26           0   112     38         96         0        134        302
        05:15 PM         22       14         0          36        70           36           0   106     44        136         2        182        324
        05:30 PM         20       13         0          33        45           29           0    74     46        131         0        177        284
        05:45 PM         28       20         0          48        63           24           0    87     51        120         0        171        306
            Total       112       61         0         173       264          115           0   379    179        483         2        664       1216

      Grand Total      215      123          1         339      526           222         3     751    302       839           4     1145        2235
       Apprch %        63.4     36.3       0.3                   70           29.6      0.4            26.4      73.3        0.3
         Total %        9.6      5.5         0        15.2      23.5           9.9      0.1     33.6   13.5      37.5        0.2     51.2
            cars       213      122          1        336       521           220         3     744    301       825           4     1130        2210
          % cars       99.1     99.2       100        99.1       99           99.1      100     99.1   99.7      98.3        100     98.7        98.9
             HV           2        1         0           3         5             2        0        7      1       14           0       15          25
           % HV         0.9      0.8         0         0.9         1           0.9        0      0.9    0.3       1.7          0      1.3         1.1




                                    Ithan Avenue                            Ithan Avenue                   County Line Road
                                     Southbound                              Northbound                       Eastbound
            Start Time         Thru       Right    App. Total          Left       Thru   App. Total      Left    Right    App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
             05:00 PM            42          14            56            86            26       112       38            96          134           302
             05:15 PM            22          14            36            70            36       106       44          136           180           322
             05:30 PM            20          13            33            45            29        74       46          131           177           284
             05:45 PM            28          20            48            63            24        87       51          120           171           306
        Total Volume            112          61           173           264           115       379      179          483           662          1214
         % App. Total          64.7        35.3                        69.7          30.3                 27            73
                  PHF          .667        .763          .772          .767          .799       .846    .877         .888           .919         .943
                   cars         111          61           172           260           114        374     179          478            657         1203
                % cars         99.1         100          99.4          98.5          99.1       98.7     100         99.0           99.2         99.1
                    HV            1           0             1             4             1          5       0             5             5           11
                 % HV           0.9           0           0.6           1.5           0.9        1.3       0           1.0           0.8          0.9




                                                                                                                                                136
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan Avenue & County Line Road N                                                                                File Name      : 11-IthCoLNPM
                                                                                                                 Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                 Start Date     : 11/15/2012
                                                                                                                 Page No        :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- HV
                                Ithan Avenue                           Ithan Avenue                            County Line Road
                                 Southbound                             Northbound                                Eastbound
       Start Time      Thru     Right   Peds App. Total         Left   Thru     Peds App. Total        Left     Right    Peds App. Total      Int. Total
        04:00 PM          1         1      0         2            1        0       0         1           0          2       0         2               5
        04:15 PM          0         0      0         0            0        0       0         0           1          2       0         3               3
        04:30 PM          0         0      0         0            0        0       0         0           0          4       0         4               4
        04:45 PM          0         0      0         0            0        1       0         1           0          1       0         1               2
             Total        1         1      0         2            1        1       0         2           1          9       0        10              14

        05:00 PM          0         0        0           0        2             0           0      2     0          2       0            2            4
        05:15 PM          0         0        0           0        1             0           0      1     0          1       0            1            2
        05:30 PM          1         0        0           1        1             1           0      2     0          2       0            2            5
        05:45 PM          0         0        0           0        0             0           0      0     0          0       0            0            0
            Total         1         0        0           1        4             1           0      5     0          5       0            5           11

      Grand Total         2        1         0           3         5             2          0      7     1        14        0            15          25
       Apprch %        66.7     33.3         0                  71.4          28.6          0          6.7       93.3       0
         Total %          8        4         0          12       20              8          0    28      4        56        0            60




                                    Ithan Avenue                            Ithan Avenue                   County Line Road
                                     Southbound                              Northbound                       Eastbound
            Start Time         Thru       Right    App. Total          Left       Thru   App. Total      Left    Right    App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
             05:00 PM             0           0             0             2             0         2        0            2           2                 4
             05:15 PM             0           0             0             1             0         1        0            1           1                 2
             05:30 PM             1           0             1             1             1         2        0            2           2                 5
             05:45 PM             0           0             0             0             0         0        0            0           0                 0
        Total Volume              1           0             1             4             1         5        0            5           5                11
         % App. Total           100           0                          80            20                  0          100
                  PHF          .250        .000          .250          .500          .250       .625    .000         .625         .625             .550




                                                                                                                                                 137
                                                         F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                  105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                 Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan Avenue & County Line Road S                                                                                 File Name     : 12-IthCoLSPM
                                                                                                                  Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                  Start Date    : 11/15/2012
                                                                                                                  Page No       :1
                                                                 Groups Printed- cars - HV
                                 Ithan Avenue                          County Line Road                          Ithan Avenue
                                  Southbound                              Westbound                               Northbound
        Start Time      Left     Thru    Peds App. Total          Left   Right    Peds App. Total       Thru     Right   Peds App. Total   Int. Total
         04:00 PM        41         48      0        89             4      30         0       34          46         4      0        50          173
         04:15 PM        60         63      0       123             4      36         0       40          34         7      0        41          204
         04:30 PM        54         64      0       118             2      32         0       34          46         8      0        54          206
         04:45 PM        64         59      1       124             6      45         0       51          45         8      0        53          228
              Total     219        234      1       454            16     143         0      159         171        27      0       198          811

        05:00 PM         60        80         0        140          3           58           0    61     59        14       0         73        274
        05:15 PM         77        85         0        162          5           37           0    42     62         6       0         68        272
        05:30 PM         74        73         2        149          8           27           0    35     46         8       0         54        238
        05:45 PM         85        64         0        149          7           37           0    44     51         8       0         59        252
            Total       296       302         2        600         23          159           0   182    218        36       0        254       1036

      Grand Total      515       536         3        1054        39           302           0   341    389       63        0        452       1847
       Apprch %        48.9      50.9      0.3                   11.4          88.6          0          86.1     13.9       0
         Total %       27.9       29       0.2        57.1        2.1          16.4          0   18.5   21.1      3.4       0       24.5
            cars       511       524         3        1038        38           299           0   337    387       63        0       450        1825
          % cars       99.2      97.8      100        98.5       97.4           99           0   98.8   99.5     100        0       99.6       98.8
             HV           4       12         0          16          1             3          0      4      2        0       0          2         22
           % HV         0.8       2.2        0         1.5        2.6             1          0    1.2    0.5        0       0        0.4        1.2




                                     Ithan Avenue                         County Line Road                    Ithan Avenue
                                      Southbound                             Westbound                         Northbound
            Start Time          Left       Thru    App. Total           Left    Right    App. Total      Thru      Right   App. Total      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
             05:00 PM            60          80           140              3            58        61        59         14          73           274
             05:15 PM             77         85           162              5            37        42        62          6          68           272
             05:30 PM             74         73           147              8            27        35        46          8          54           236
             05:45 PM            85          64           149              7            37        44        51          8          59           252
        Total Volume            296         302           598             23           159       182       218         36         254          1034
         % App. Total          49.5        50.5                         12.6          87.4                85.8       14.2
                  PHF          .871        .888          .923           .719          .685       .746     .879       .643         .870         .943
                   cars         295         297           592             23           156        179      217         36          253         1024
                % cars         99.7        98.3          99.0            100          98.1       98.4     99.5        100         99.6         99.0
                    HV             1          5              6             0             3          3        1          0            1           10
                 % HV            0.3        1.7            1.0             0           1.9        1.6      0.5          0          0.4          1.0




                                                                                                                                              138
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan Avenue & County Line Road S                                                                               File Name     : 12-IthCoLSPM
                                                                                                                Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date    : 11/15/2012
                                                                                                                Page No       :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- HV
                                Ithan Avenue                         County Line Road                          Ithan Avenue
                                 Southbound                             Westbound                               Northbound
       Start Time      Left     Thru    Peds App. Total         Left   Right    Peds App. Total       Thru     Right   Peds App. Total     Int. Total
        04:00 PM         1          3      0         4            1       0        0         1           0         0      0         0              5
        04:15 PM         0          0      0         0            0       0        0         0           0         0      0         0              0
        04:30 PM         2          3      0         5            0       0        0         0           0         0      0         0              5
        04:45 PM         0          1      0         1            0       0        0         0           1         0      0         1              2
             Total       3          7      0        10            1       0        0         1           1         0      0         1             12

        05:00 PM          0         2        0           2        0            2           0      2     0         0       0            0           4
        05:15 PM          1         0        0           1        0            1           0      1     1         0       0            1           3
        05:30 PM          0         3        0           3        0            0           0      0     0         0       0            0           3
        05:45 PM          0         0        0           0        0            0           0      0     0         0       0            0           0
            Total         1         5        0           6        0            3           0      3     1         0       0            1          10

      Grand Total         4      12          0          16        1             3          0      4     2         0       0            2          22
       Apprch %         25       75          0                  25            75           0          100         0       0
         Total %       18.2     54.5         0        72.7      4.5          13.6          0   18.2   9.1         0       0        9.1




                                     Ithan Avenue                       County Line Road                    Ithan Avenue
                                      Southbound                           Westbound                         Northbound
            Start Time          Left       Thru    App. Total         Left    Right    App. Total      Thru      Right   App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
             05:00 PM             0           2             2            0             2         2         0          0           0                4
             05:15 PM             1           0             1            0             1         1         1          0           1                3
             05:30 PM             0           3             3            0             0         0         0          0           0                3
             05:45 PM             0           0             0            0             0         0         0          0           0                0
        Total Volume              1           5             6            0             3         3         1          0           1               10
         % App. Total          16.7        83.3                          0           100                 100          0
                  PHF          .250        .417          .500         .000          .375       .375     .250       .000         .250            .625




                                                                                                                                              139
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


County Line Road & Lowrys Lane                                                                                 File Name         : 13-CoLLowPM
                                                                                                               Site Code         : 21102792
                                                                                                               Start Date        : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                               Page No           :1
                                                                Groups Printed- cars - HV
                              County Line Road                        County Line Road                         Lowrys Lane
                                Southbound                              Northbound                              Eastbound
       Start Time      Thru    Right    Peds App. Total          Left   Thru     Peds App. Total       Left    Right   Peds App. Total        Int. Total
        04:00 PM         42      27        1        70             7      42         0       49          7        3       3        13               132
        04:15 PM         37      18        0        55            10      39         0       49          3        4       1         8               112
        04:30 PM         50      22        2        74             8      41         0       49          7        8       1        16               139
        04:45 PM         32      17        0        49            14      32         0       46          2        4       0         6               101
             Total      161      84        3       248            39     154         0      193         19       19       5        43               484

        05:00 PM         40       38         0          78         9           41           0    50      6        5         1            12        140
        05:15 PM         33       33         0          66        20           49           0    69      2        4         4            10        145
        05:30 PM         43       24         0          67         9           47           0    56      4        5         3            12        135
        05:45 PM         37       27         1          65        13           42           0    55      4        4         0             8        128
            Total       153      122         1         276        51          179           0   230     16       18         8            42        548

      Grand Total      314      206          4         524       90           333           0   423     35      37         13            85       1032
       Apprch %        59.9     39.3       0.8                  21.3          78.7          0          41.2    43.5       15.3
         Total %       30.4      20        0.4        50.8       8.7          32.3          0    41     3.4     3.6        1.3       8.2
            cars       314      206          4        524        90           333           0   423     35      37         13         85          1032
          % cars       100      100        100        100       100           100           0   100    100     100        100        100           100
             HV           0        0         0           0         0             0          0     0       0       0          0         0             0
           % HV           0        0         0           0         0             0          0     0       0       0          0         0             0




                                  County Line Road                       County Line Road                     Lowrys Lane
                                     Southbound                             Northbound                         Eastbound
            Start Time         Thru       Right    App. Total          Left     Thru    App. Total       Left     Right   App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
             05:00 PM            40          38            78             9            41        50        6          5            11              139
             05:15 PM            33          33            66            20            49        69        2          4             6              141
             05:30 PM            43          24            67             9            47        56        4          5             9              132
             05:45 PM            37          27            64            13            42        55        4          4             8              127
        Total Volume            153         122           275            51           179       230       16         18            34              539
         % App. Total          55.6        44.4                        22.2          77.8               47.1       52.9
                  PHF          .890        .803          .881          .638          .913       .833    .667       .900           .773             .956
                   cars         153         122           275            51           179        230      16         18             34              539
                % cars          100         100           100           100           100        100     100        100            100              100
                    HV            0           0             0             0             0          0       0          0              0                0
                 % HV             0           0             0             0             0          0       0          0              0                0




                                                                                                                                                 140
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


County Line Road & Lowrys Lane                                                                              File Name      : 13-CoLLowPM
                                                                                                            Site Code      : 21102792
                                                                                                            Start Date     : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                            Page No        :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- HV
                              County Line Road                       County Line Road                       Lowrys Lane
                                Southbound                             Northbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time      Thru    Right    Peds App. Total         Left   Thru     Peds App. Total     Left    Right   Peds App. Total     Int. Total
        04:00 PM          0        0       0         0            0       0        0         0        0        0       0         0              0
        04:15 PM          0        0       0         0            0       0        0         0        0        0       0         0              0
        04:30 PM          0        0       0         0            0       0        0         0        0        0       0         0              0
        04:45 PM          0        0       0         0            0       0        0         0        0        0       0         0              0
             Total        0        0       0         0            0       0        0         0        0        0       0         0              0

        05:00 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0       0     0        0       0            0            0
        05:15 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0       0     0        0       0            0            0
        05:30 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0       0     0        0       0            0            0
        05:45 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0       0     0        0       0            0            0
            Total         0         0        0           0        0          0          0       0     0        0       0            0            0

      Grand Total         0         0        0           0        0          0          0       0     0        0       0            0            0
       Apprch %           0         0        0                    0          0          0             0        0       0
         Total %




                                  County Line Road                      County Line Road                   Lowrys Lane
                                     Southbound                            Northbound                       Eastbound
            Start Time         Thru       Right    App. Total         Left     Thru    App. Total     Left     Right   App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
             05:00 PM             0           0            0             0          0          0        0          0           0                 0
             05:15 PM             0           0            0             0          0          0        0          0           0                 0
             05:30 PM             0           0            0             0          0          0        0          0           0                 0
             05:45 PM             0           0            0             0          0          0        0          0           0                 0
        Total Volume              0           0            0             0          0          0        0          0           0                 0
        % App. Total              0           0                          0          0                   0          0
                  PHF          .000        .000         .000          .000       .000        .000    .000       .000         .000            .000




                                                                                                                                           141
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


County Line & Airdale Roads                                                                                     File Name      : 14-CoLAirPM
                                                                                                                Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date     : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                                Page No        :1
                                                                Groups Printed- cars - HV
                              County Line Road                          Airdale Road                          Airdale Road
                                Southbound                               Westbound                             Eastbound
       Start Time      Left    Right    Peds App. Total         Thru    Right    Peds App. Total      Left    Thru     Peds App. Total   Int. Total
        04:00 PM         1       33        1        35            66        2        0       68        38       53        1        92          195
        04:15 PM         0       34        1        35            69        1        0       70        40       54        1        95          200
        04:30 PM         3       25        4        32            86        3        0       89        37       74        0       111          232
        04:45 PM         6       27        1        34            91        3        1       95        31       42        0        73          202
             Total      10      119        7       136           312        9        1      322       146      223        2       371          829

        05:00 PM          2       33         7          42        84           2           0    86     36       51        0         87        215
        05:15 PM          4       26         4          34        77           5           1    83     47       61        0        108        225
        05:30 PM          5       31         5          41        87           6           0    93     43       48        0         91        225
        05:45 PM          1       26         3          30        90           3           0    93     40       51        0         91        214
            Total        12      116        19         147       338          16           1   355    166      211        0        377        879

      Grand Total        22     235         26         283      650            25        2     677    312     434          2       748       1708
       Apprch %         7.8      83        9.2                   96           3.7      0.3            41.7     58        0.3
         Total %        1.3     13.8       1.5        16.6      38.1          1.5      0.1     39.6   18.3    25.4       0.1      43.8
            cars         22     234         26        282       644            25        2     671    310     430          2      742        1695
          % cars        100     99.6       100        99.6      99.1          100      100     99.1   99.4    99.1       100      99.2       99.2
             HV           0        1         0           1         6            0        0        6      2       4         0         6         13
           % HV           0      0.4         0         0.4       0.9            0        0      0.9    0.6     0.9         0       0.8        0.8




                                   County Line Road                      Airdale Road                        Airdale Road
                                     Southbound                          Westbound                            Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Right    App. Total       Thru      Right   App. Total        Left      Thru    App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
             05:00 PM              2         33            35            84            2        86       36         51           87           208
             05:15 PM              4         26            30            77            5        82       47         61          108           220
             05:30 PM              5         31            36            87            6        93       43         48           91           220
             05:45 PM              1         26            27            90            3        93       40         51           91           211
        Total Volume              12        116           128           338           16       354      166        211          377           859
         % App. Total            9.4       90.6                        95.5          4.5                 44         56
                  PHF          .600        .879          .889          .939         .667       .952    .883       .865          .873          .976
                   cars           12        116           128           337           16        353     165        210           375           856
                % cars          100         100           100          99.7          100       99.7    99.4       99.5          99.5          99.7
                    HV             0          0             0             1            0          1       1          1             2             3
                 % HV              0          0             0           0.3            0        0.3     0.6        0.5           0.5           0.3




                                                                                                                                            142
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


County Line & Airdale Roads                                                                                   File Name      : 14-CoLAirPM
                                                                                                              Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                              Start Date     : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                              Page No        :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- HV
                              County Line Road                         Airdale Road                         Airdale Road
                                Southbound                              Westbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time      Left    Right    Peds App. Total         Thru   Right    Peds App. Total     Left    Thru     Peds App. Total     Int. Total
        04:00 PM         0         1       0         1             2      0        0         2        0        0        0         0              3
        04:15 PM         0         0       0         0             0      0        0         0        1        1        0         2              2
        04:30 PM         0         0       0         0             1      0        0         1        0        1        0         1              2
        04:45 PM         0         0       0         0             2      0        0         2        0        1        0         1              3
             Total       0         1       0         1             5      0        0         5        1        3        0         4             10

        05:00 PM          0         0        0           0        0           0          0      0     0        0        0            0            0
        05:15 PM          0         0        0           0        1           0          0      1     0        0        0            0            1
        05:30 PM          0         0        0           0        0           0          0      0     0        1        0            1            1
        05:45 PM          0         0        0           0        0           0          0      0     1        0        0            1            1
            Total         0         0        0           0        1           0          0      1     1        1        0            2            3

      Grand Total         0        1         0           1         6          0          0      6      2       4        0            6          13
       Apprch %           0      100         0                  100           0          0          33.3    66.7        0
         Total %          0      7.7         0         7.7      46.2          0          0   46.2   15.4    30.8        0       46.2




                                  County Line Road                      Airdale Road                       Airdale Road
                                     Southbound                         Westbound                           Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Right    App. Total      Thru      Right   App. Total       Left      Thru    App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
             05:00 PM             0           0             0             0          0         0        0          0            0                 0
             05:15 PM             0           0             0             1          0         1        0          0            0                 1
             05:30 PM             0           0             0             0          0         0        0          1            1                 1
             05:45 PM             0           0             0             0          0         0        1          0            1                 1
        Total Volume              0           0             0             1          0         1        1          1            2                 3
         % App. Total             0           0                         100          0                 50         50
                  PHF          .000        .000          .000          .250       .000       .250    .250       .250          .500            .750




                                                                                                                                            143
                                                                F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                           105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                          Philadelphia, PA 19147


County Line & Roberts Roads                                                                                                        File Name              : 15-CoLRobPM
                                                                                                                                   Site Code              : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date             : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                                                   Page No                :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- cars - HV
                     County Line Road                         Roberts Road                   County Line Road                             Roberts Road
                       Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total           Left Thru Right Peds            App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       3 160     20     3         186         0       4    5     2       11     0 124       6    0    130                 7     6    6     0                 19          346
  04:15 PM       0 151     13     1         165         3       5    2     4       14     1 131       4    0    136                 5     9    2     0                 16          331
  04:30 PM       1 145     12     2         160         2       5    0     2        9     0 119       6    0    125                10     8    1     1                 20          314
  04:45 PM       3 151     11     1         166         2     13     1     0       16     2 116      15    2    135                 2     6    0     3                 11          328
      Total      7 607     56     7         677         7     27     8     8       50     3 490      31    2    526                24   29     9     4                 66         1319

  05:00 PM       3   147     16     2       168         1      8      4      0     13     0       111       4          0   115      9      4         1        1        15          311
  05:15 PM       2   178      9     0       189         3      7      2      0     12     0       136       5          1   142      8      7         0        3        18          361
  05:30 PM       3   178     18     0       199         0      8      2      1     11     4       117      10          0   131      8      6         0        2        16          357
  05:45 PM       3   138     16     0       157         5      2      3      1     11     0       137       9          1   147     11      8         0        1        20          335
      Total     11   641     59     2       713         9     25     11      2     47     4       501      28          2   535     36     25         1        7        69         1364

 Grand Total    18   1248    115     9    1390          16   52  19    10          97     7 991    59               4      1061     60     54        10    11        135          2683
  Apprch %     1.3   89.8    8.3   0.6                16.5 53.6 19.6 10.3               0.7 93.4  5.6             0.4             44.4     40       7.4   8.1
   Total %     0.7   46.5    4.3   0.3    51.8         0.6  1.9  0.7  0.4         3.6   0.3 36.9  2.2             0.1      39.5    2.2      2       0.4   0.4          5
       cars     18   1239    111     9    1377          16   52  19    10          97     7 973    58               4      1042     59     54        10    11        134          2650
    % cars     100   99.3   96.5   100    99.1         100 100 100 100            100   100 98.2 98.3             100      98.2   98.3    100       100   100       99.3          98.8
        HV       0      9      4     0      13           0    0    0    0           0     0   18    1               0        19      1      0         0     0          1            33
     % HV        0    0.7    3.5     0     0.9           0    0    0    0           0     0  1.8  1.7               0       1.8    1.7      0         0     0        0.7           1.2




                        County Line Road                  Roberts Road                        County Line Road                            Roberts Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                            Northbound                                 Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total           Left Thru Right App. Total               Left    Thru Right App. Total               Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          3     147      16       166      1      8     4      13                 0     111           4        115       9          4         1          14             308
    05:15 PM          2     178       9       189      3      7     2      12                 0     136           5        141       8          7        0           15             357
    05:30 PM          3     178      18       199      0      8     2      10                 4     117          10        131       8          6        0           14            354
    05:45 PM          3     138      16       157      5      2     3      10               0       137            9       146      11          8        0           19            332
 Total Volume        11     641      59       711      9     25    11      45               4        501          28       533      36       25          1           62           1351
 % App. Total       1.5    90.2     8.3               20   55.6  24.4                     0.8         94         5.3              58.1     40.3        1.6
          PHF     .917     .900    .819      .893   .450   .781  .688    .865            .250       .914        .700       .913   .818     .781       .250        .816            .946
          cars       11     640      56       707      9     25    11      45               4        495          28        527     35       25          1          61            1340
        % cars     100     99.8    94.9      99.4    100    100   100     100             100       98.8         100       98.9   97.2      100        100        98.4            99.2
           HV         0       1       3         4      0      0     0        0              0          6           0          6      1        0          0           1              11
         % HV         0     0.2     5.1       0.6      0      0     0        0              0        1.2           0        1.1    2.8        0          0         1.6             0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                 144
                                                               F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                          105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                         Philadelphia, PA 19147


County Line & Roberts Roads                                                                                                      File Name         : 15-CoLRobPM
                                                                                                                                 Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date        : 11/13/2012
                                                                                                                                 Page No           :1
                                                                        Groups Printed- HV
                     County Line Road                        Roberts Road                   County Line Road                           Roberts Road
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                               Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total          Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0     2    1     0            3       0       0    0     0        0     0     3    0     0        3              0     0    0     0               0          6
  04:15 PM       0     1    0     0            1       0       0    0     0        0     0     3    0     0        3              0     0    0     0               0          4
  04:30 PM       0     1    0     0            1       0       0    0     0        0     0     4    0     0        4              0     0    0     0               0          5
  04:45 PM       0     4    0     0            4       0       0    0     0        0     0     2    1     0        3              0     0    0     0               0          7
      Total      0     8    1     0            9       0       0    0     0        0     0    12    1     0      13               0     0    0     0               0         22

  05:00 PM       0     0     1     0           1       0      0      0      0      0     0      2        0           0      2     0     0      0      0            0          3
  05:15 PM       0     1     0     0           1       0      0      0      0      0     0      1        0           0      1     1     0      0      0            1          3
  05:30 PM       0     0     0     0           0       0      0      0      0      0     0      3        0           0      3     0     0      0      0            0          3
  05:45 PM       0     0     2     0           2       0      0      0      0      0     0      0        0           0      0     0     0      0      0            0          2
      Total      0     1     3     0           4       0      0      0      0      0     0      6        0           0      6     1     0      0      0            1         11

 Grand Total     0    9    4       0         13        0      0      0      0      0     0   18           1          0     19     1     0      0      0            1         33
  Apprch %       0 69.2 30.8       0                   0      0      0      0            0 94.7         5.3          0          100     0      0      0
   Total %       0 27.3 12.1       0      39.4         0      0      0      0      0     0 54.5           3          0   57.6     3     0      0      0            3




                       County Line Road                   Roberts Road                       County Line Road                          Roberts Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                               Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total          Left Thru Right App. Total             Left    Thru Right App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0       0       1         1      0      0     0        0             0        2            0         2      0        0      0            0                3
    05:15 PM          0       1       0         1      0      0     0        0             0        1            0         1      1        0      0            1               3
    05:30 PM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0             0        3            0         3       0       0      0            0               3
    05:45 PM          0       0       2         2      0      0     0        0             0       0             0         0       0       0      0            0               2
 Total Volume         0       1       3         4      0      0     0        0             0       6             0         6       1       0      0            1              11
 % App. Total         0      25      75                0      0     0                      0     100             0               100       0      0
          PHF     .000     .250    .375      .500   .000   .000  .000    .000           .000    .500          .000       .500   .250    .000   .000       .250             .917




                                                                                                                                                                         145
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan & Aldwyn Avenues                                                                                                                        File Name         : 16-IthAldPM
                                                                                                                                              Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                              Start Date        : 11/15/2012
                                                                                                                                              Page No           :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Ithan Avenue                          South Campus                     Ithan Avenue                                       Aldwyn Lane
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                         Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds               App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds          App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       6   65     3    34       108         4       0    5     2       11    18    32     3    1                   54         4     2    3     0                9          182
  04:15 PM       7   60     1    13        81         1       2    4     6       13     6    23     1    4                   34         3     0    9     0               12          140
  04:30 PM       7   60     3    15        85         1       0    8     6       15    11    26     2    2                   41         2     0    5     0                7          148
  04:45 PM      13   62     3    16        94         1       1   10     3       15     8    23     0    1                   32         1     0    3     0                4          145
      Total     33 247     10    78       368         7       3   27    17       54    43 104       6    8                  161        10     2   20     0               32          615

  05:00 PM       8    71     2    31      112         3      1     9      5     18     9        34        0          0       43         0       0       2       0         2          175
  05:15 PM      18    74     4    71      167         1      0     5      3      9    14        35        3          0       52         1       0       3       0         4          232
  05:30 PM      17    71     7    30      125         2      1    10      1     14     6        28        0          0       34         1       0       3       2         6          179
  05:45 PM       8    51     8    23       90         2      1    13      0     16     5        33        2          0       40         2       0       5       0         7          153
      Total     51   267    21   155      494         8      3    37      9     57    34       130        5          0      169         4       0      13       2        19          739

 Grand Total    84 514      31 233        862         15     6  64    26       111     77 234          11         8         330         14       2   33       2          51         1354
  Apprch %     9.7 59.6    3.6   27                 13.5   5.4 57.7 23.4             23.3 70.9        3.3       2.4                   27.5     3.9 64.7     3.9
   Total %     6.2   38    2.3 17.2      63.7        1.1   0.4  4.7  1.9       8.2    5.7 17.3        0.8       0.6        24.4          1     0.1  2.4     0.1        3.8
       cars     79 508      31 233        851         15     6  59    26       106     71 230          11         8         320         14       2   31       2         49          1326
    % cars      94 98.8    100 100       98.7        100   100 92.2 100       95.5   92.2 98.3        100       100          97        100     100 93.9     100       96.1          97.9
        HV       5    6      0    0        11          0     0    5    0         5      6    4          0         0          10          0       0    2       0          2            28
     % HV        6  1.2      0    0       1.3          0     0  7.8    0       4.5    7.8  1.7          0         0           3          0       0  6.1       0        3.9           2.1




                          Ithan Avenue                    South Campus                          Ithan Avenue                                   Aldwyn Lane
                           Southbound                      Westbound                             Northbound                                     Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left      Thru Right App. Total                 Left    Thru Right       App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          8      71       2        81      3       1     9      13             9         34         0             43         0         0        2            2            139
    05:15 PM         18      74       4        96      1       0     5       6          14           35         3             52         1         0        3            4            158
    05:30 PM         17      71       7        95      2       1    10      13           6         28            0           34          1         0        3            4            146
    05:45 PM          8      51       8        67      2       1    13      16           5         33            2           40          2         0        5            7            130
 Total Volume        51     267      21       339      8       3    37      48          34        130            5          169          4         0      13           17             573
 % App. Total        15    78.8     6.2             16.7     6.2  77.1                20.1       76.9            3                    23.5         0    76.5
          PHF     .708     .902    .656      .883   .667   .750   .712   .750         .607       .929         .417         .813       .500      .000    .650        .607             .907
          cars       49     265      21       335      8       3    35      46          33        128            5          166          4         0      13          17              564
        % cars    96.1     99.3     100      98.8    100    100   94.6   95.8         97.1       98.5          100         98.2        100         0     100         100             98.4
           HV         2       2       0         4      0       0     2       2           1          2            0            3          0         0       0           0                9
         % HV       3.9     0.7       0       1.2      0       0   5.4     4.2         2.9        1.5            0          1.8          0         0       0           0              1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                   146
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan & Aldwyn Avenues                                                                                                                    File Name         : 16-IthAldPM
                                                                                                                                          Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                          Start Date        : 11/15/2012
                                                                                                                                          Page No           :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Ithan Avenue                          South Campus                     Ithan Avenue                                   Aldwyn Lane
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds            App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0     2    0     0           2       0       0    0     0        0     4     0     0    0                   4       0     0    0     0                  0          6
  04:15 PM       2     1    0     0           3       0       0    1     0        1     1     2     0    0                   3       0     0    0     0                  0          7
  04:30 PM       0     1    0     0           1       0       0    1     0        1     0     0     0    0                   0       0     0    2     0                  2          4
  04:45 PM       1     0    0     0           1       0       0    1     0        1     0     0     0    0                   0       0     0    0     0                  0          2
      Total      3     4    0     0           7       0       0    3     0        3     5     2     0    0                   7       0     0    2     0                  2         19

  05:00 PM       1     0     0     0          1       0      0     0      0      0     1       0       0          0          1       0      0       0       0            0            2
  05:15 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     1      0      1     0       1       0          0          1       0      0       0       0            0            2
  05:30 PM       1     1     0     0          2       0      0     0      0      0     0       0       0          0          0       0      0       0       0            0            2
  05:45 PM       0     1     0     0          1       0      0     1      0      1     0       1       0          0          1       0      0       0       0            0            3
      Total      2     2     0     0          4       0      0     2      0      2     1       2       0          0          3       0      0       0       0            0            9

 Grand Total      5    6     0     0        11        0      0    5       0      5    6    4           0          0        10        0      0        2      0            2         28
  Apprch %     45.5 54.5     0     0                  0      0 100        0          60   40           0          0                  0      0      100      0
   Total %     17.9 21.4     0     0     39.3         0      0 17.9       0   17.9 21.4 14.3           0          0     35.7         0      0      7.1      0       7.1




                          Ithan Avenue                    South Campus                         Ithan Avenue                                Aldwyn Lane
                           Southbound                      Westbound                            Northbound                                  Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left      Thru Right App. Total              Left    Thru Right       App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          1       0       0         1      0      0      0       0             1       0          0              1        0        0        0            0                2
    05:15 PM          0       0       0         0      0      0      1       1           0         1          0              1        0        0        0            0                2
    05:30 PM          1       1       0         2      0      0      0       0           0        0           0              0        0        0        0            0                2
    05:45 PM          0       1       0         1      0      0      1       1           0        1           0              1        0        0        0            0                3
 Total Volume         2       2       0         4      0      0      2       2           1        2           0              3        0        0        0            0                9
 % App. Total       50       50       0                0      0    100                33.3     66.7           0                       0        0        0
          PHF     .500     .500    .000      .500   .000   .000   .500   .500         .250     .500        .000         .750       .000     .000     .000       .000             .750




                                                                                                                                                                               147
                                                                                                                                                     F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                    105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                                                                                                                   Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster Avenue & Spring Mill/Sproul Rd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   File Name                                   : 01-30SproulEve
& Kenilworth Rd/Aldwyn Ln                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code                                   : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Start Date                                  : 12/11/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Page No                                     :1
                                                                                                                                                                              Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      North Spring Mill
                                                                                   Lancaster Avenue                                                   Aldwyn Lane                                                          Sproul Road                                               Lancaster Avenue                                                        Kenilworth Road
                           Road
                                                                                      Westbound                                                      Northwestbound                                                        Northbound                                                   Eastbound                                                            Southeastbound
                        Southbound
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lt                                                      Lt
                Lt        Lt                                                  Lt         Lt                                                    Lt        Lt                                                    Lt        Lt                                                        Lt                                                                             Lt
                                                                     App.                                                             App.                                                            App.                                                                 App.               o                                              App.     o                                                         App.      Int.
                oL         o                                                   o          o                                                     o        oL                                                    oL         o                                                         o                                                                            oL
 Start Time                                                          Tota                                                             Tota                                                            Tota                                                                 Tota               S                                              Tota     S                                                         Tota     Tota
                an        Al                                                  Al         Sp                                                    Sp        an                                                    an        Ke                                                        Ke                                                                             an
                                                                        l                                                                l                                                               l                                                                    l              Mil                                                l    Mil                                                           l         l
                 c         d                                                   d           r                                                     r        c                                                     c         n                                                         n                                                                              c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l                                                       l

                                                                                                      17                                                                                                                                                                                                 26
06:00 PM        3 2                    69     29        0 2          105      0 5                              0         19    0      200      1         13           0 4 0 0 18                               48        0            20        10         0 0 78 1                          43                       16     64        0     384     1 1 1 0 2 2                                                 7       792
                                                                                                       6                                                                                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                      19                                                                                                                                                                                                 32
06:15 PM        8 7                    41     41        0 2 99 1 4                                             0 9 0                  206      7 9 1 2 0 0 19                                                  41        0            31        9 3 0 84 0                                   54                       21     55        0     453     0 0 0 0 2 2                                                 4       865
                                                                                                       2                                                                                                                                                                                                  3

                                                                                                      18                                                                                                                                                                                                 26
06:30 PM        8 7                    35     52        0 0          102      1 1                              0 7 0                  190      4 5 0 0 0 0                                             9       34        0            30        13         4 0 81 1                          51                       12     72        0     400     0 1 0 0 2 0                                                 3       785
                                                                                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                                  4

                                                                                                      16                                                                                                                                                                                                 29
06:45 PM        5 3                    35     52        0 2 97 0 1                                             1 2 0                  172      0 6 0 0 2 0                                             8       30        0            15        9 0 0 54 2                                   59                       18     47        0     421     0 0 0 1 1 2                                                 4       756
                                                                                                       8                                                                                                                                                                                                  5

 Tota                                  18      17                                                     71                                                                                                       15                                                                            20          11                   23
                24        19                            0 6          403      2          11                    1         37    0      768      12        33           1 6 2 0 54                                         0            96        41         7 0             297     4                                  67               0     1658    1 2 1 1 7 6 18                                                      3198
     l                                  0          4                                                   7                                                                                                        3                                                                             7          42                       8




                                                                                                      16                                                                                                                                                                                                 16
07:00 PM        3 0                    24     32        0 0 59 0                         10                    0 8 0                  187      0         10           0 4 5 0 19                               37        1            13        4 0 0 55 1                                   43                       9      30        0     250     0 0 0 1 3 0                                                 4       574
                                                                                                       9                                                                                                                                                                                                  7

                                                                                                      17                                                                                                                                                                                                 16
07:15 PM        1 0                    17     35        0 0 53 0 5                                             0 0 0                  175      0 6 0 4 2 0 12                                                  32        0            16        4 1 0 53 3                                   48                       7      29        0     247     0 0 0 0 2 0                                                 2       542
                                                                                                       0                                                                                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                      18                                                                                                                                                                                                 13
07:30 PM        5 2                    27     34        0 0 68 0 8                                             0         17    0      207      0 4 0 0 0 0                                             4       21        0 6 4 0 0 31 2                                                      28                       7      20        0     191     0 0 0 0 1 0                                                 1       502
                                                                                                       2                                                                                                                                                                                                  4

                                                                                                      18                                                                                                                                                                                                 12
07:45 PM        4 0                    14     33        0 2 53 0 5                                             0 7 1                  201      0 3 0 0 1 0                                             4       21        0 8 2 1 0 32 1                                                      30                       14     36        0     201     1 0 0 0 2 2                                                 5       496
                                                                                                       8                                                                                                                                                                                                  0

 Tota                                          13                                                     70                                                                                                       11                                                                            14          58                   11
                13        2            82               0 2          233      0          28                    0         32    1      770      0         23           0 8 8 0 39                                         1            43        14         2 0             171     7                                  37               0     889     1 0 0 1 8 2 12                                                      2114
     l                                             4                                                   9                                                                                                        1                                                                             9           1                       5




     Grand                             26      30                                                     14                                                                                                       26                     13                                                     35          17           10      35
                37        21                            0 8          636      2          39                    1         69    1      1538     12        56           1        14        10     0 93                     1                      55         9 0             468     11                                                  0     2547    2 2 1 2                                     15        8 30          5312
      Total                             2          8                                                  26                                                                                                        4                      9                                                      6          23            4          3

                                   41.        48.                                                     92.                                      12.       60.                   15.       10.                   56.                    29.       11.                                                      67.                 13.                                                                          26.
 Apprch %       5.8       3.3                           0     1.3             0.1        2.5                   0.1      4.5   0.1                                     1.1                       0                        0.2                               1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.4       14                   4.1                  0             6.7         6.7       3.3          6.7      50
                                        2          4                                                   7                                        9         2                        1       8                    4                      7            8                                                     6                       9                                                                         7

                                                                                                      26.                                                                                                                                                                                                32.
 Total %        0.7       0.4      4.9        5.8
                                                          0
                                                              0.2    12       0          0.7                   0        1.3
                                                                                                                                0     29       0.2       1.1
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                               0.3       0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.8       5         0           2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8.8     0.2       6.7                      2      6.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             47.9    0 0 0 0                                    0.3       0.2   0.6
                                                                                                       8                                                                                                                                                                                                  4


    cars        36        21
                                       25      29
                                                        0 8          623      2          39
                                                                                                      14
                                                                                                               1         65    0      1510     12        53           1        14        9 0           8       26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1            13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    55     9 0             465     11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             35          17           10      34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0     2525    2 2 1 2                                     15        8     3       5242
                                        9          9                                                  03                                                                                               9        2                      8                                                      3          11            4          6                                                                              0
                97.       10       98.        97.              10             10         10           98.      10       94.                    10        94.          10       10                              99.       10           99.           10     10                      10        99.         99.          10                             10           10       10           10       10        10
% cars                                                  0            98                                                        0      98.2                                               90     0     95.7                                                           0     99.4                                              98        0     99.1                                                               100      98.7
                 3         0            9          1            0              0          0            4           0      2                     0         6            0           0                            2         0            3            0           0                   0         2           3            0                              0           0         0            0           0      0

    HV 1 0 3 9 0 0 13 0 0                                                                             23       0 4 1 28 0 3 0 0 1 0                                                                    4 2 0 1 0 0 0                                                        3 0 3                        12           0 7 0 22 0 0 0 0 0 0                                                                       0 70
                                                                                                                               10
% HV            2.7
                           0
                                   1.1        2.9
                                                          0     0       2      0          0
                                                                                                      1.6
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                        5.8           1.8       0        5.4
                                                                                                                                                                       0           0
                                                                                                                                                                                         10     0     4.3      0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0          0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6      0        0.8         0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0          2      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9      0           0         0            0           0     0      0      1.3
                                                                                                                                0




                          North Spring Mill
                                                                                    Lancaster Avenue                                                      Aldwyn Lane                                                          Sproul Road                                               Lancaster Avenue                                                        Kenilworth Road
                               Road
                                                                                       Westbound                                                         Northwestbound                                                        Northbound                                                   Eastbound                                                            Southeastbound
                            Southbound
                  L to                                 R to                                                 T to              R to                             L to                    R to    R to             L to                        T to         R to                                  L to            T to                                   L to         L to                                  R to
                                L to        T to              R to    App.      L to           L to                    R to            App.      L to                       T to                       App.                    L to                                 R to    App.    L to                                   R to       R to    App.                               T to         R to               App.       Int.
   Start Time     Lan                                  Lan                                                  Lan               SM                               Lan                     SM      Lan              Lan                         SM           Lan                                   SM              Lan                                    SM           Lan                                   Lan
                                Ald         Spr               Ken     Total        Ald         Spr                     Ken             Total     Spr                        Ken                        Total               Ken                                      Ald    Total    Ken                                    Ald        Spr    Total                               Ald          Spr               Total     Total
                      c                                  c                                                    c                 ill                              c                       ill     c                   c                        ill          c                                       ill           c                                         ill         c                                   c

Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 06:00 PM
 06:00 PM 3 2 69 29 0 103 0 5 176 0 19 200 1 13                                                                                                                              0          4       0     18        48              0           20           10          0      78           1     43              260         16         64     384       1               1          1            0          2       5      788
 06:15 PM 8 7 41 41 0 97 1 4 192 0 9 206 7 9                                                                                                                                 1          2       0     19        41              0           31            9          3     84        0         54              323         21         55     453       0               0          0            0          2       2      861
 06:30 PM 8 7 35 52 0 102 1 1 181 0 7 190 4 5                                                                                                                                0          0       0        9      34              0           30           13          4     81        1         51              264         12         72     400       0               1          0            0          2       3      785
 06:45 PM 5 3 35 52 0 95 0 1 168 1 2 172 0 6                                                                                                                                 0          0       2        8      30              0           15            9          0      54       2         59              295         18         47     421       0               0          0            1          1       2      752
        Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  114
                  24            19          180        174     0     397            2          11           717         1     37      768       12            33             1          6       2      54       153            0            96           41          7     297       4         207                         67         238    1658      1               2          1            1          7     12       3186
      Volume                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2

 % App. Total         6         4.8         45.3       43.8
                                                                0
                                                                                0.3            1.4          93.4       0.1    4.8               22.2          61.1          1.9        11.1    3.7              51.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            32.3         13.8       2.4             0.2        12.5            68.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14.4            8.3          16.7          8.3          8.3        58.3
         PHF
                  .750          .679        .652       .837   .000   .964      .500            .550         .934       .250   .487    .932      .429          .635          .250       .375    .250   .711      .797       .000             .774         .788       .438   .884     .500       .877            .884        .798       .826   .915    .250          .500          .250         .250       .875   .600     .925
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               113
    cars          23            19          179        171     0     392            2          11           703         1     34      751       12            33             1          6       2      54       152            0            95           41          7     295       4         206                         67         231    1640      1               2          1            1          7     12       3144
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2

 % cars           95.8          100         99.4       98.3
                                                                0
                                                                     98.7       100            100          98.0       100    91.9    97.8      100           100           100        100     100    100       99.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            99.0         100        100    99.3     100        99.5            99.1        100        97.1   98.9     100          100           100          100        100    100      98.7
      HV              1          0           1          3      0        5           0           0           14          0      3        17           0          0            0          0       0       0            1          0            1            0          0        2          0         1           10           0          7      18           0           0          0            0          0       0        42
    % HV          4.2                       0.6        1.7           1.3                                    2.0               8.1     2.2                                                                       0.7                         1.0                            0.7                 0.5             0.9                    2.9    1.1                                                                         1.3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        148
                                                                                                                                             F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                          105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                                                                                                         Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster Avenue & Spring Mill/Sproul Rd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    File Name                                   : 01-30SproulEve
& Kenilworth Rd/Aldwyn Ln                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code                                   : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Start Date                                  : 12/11/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Page No                                     :1
                                                                                                                                                                              Groups Printed- HV
                      North Spring Mill
                                                                                 Lancaster Avenue                                             Aldwyn Lane                                                      Sproul Road                                              Lancaster Avenue                                                      Kenilworth Road
                           Road
                                                                                    Westbound                                                Northwestbound                                                    Northbound                                                  Eastbound                                                          Southeastbound
                        Southbound
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lt                                                     Lt
                Lt        Lt                                                Lt         Lt                                               Lt       Lt                                                 Lt        Lt                                                      Lt                                                                           Lt
                                                                   App.                                                        App.                                                         App.                                                              App.              o                                             App.     o                                                 App.      Int.
                oL         o                                                o           o                                                o       oL                                                 oL         o                                                       o                                                                          oL
 Start Time                                                        Tota                                                        Tota                                                         Tota                                                              Tota              S                                             Tota     S                                                 Tota     Tota
                an        Al                                                Al         Sp                                               Sp       an                                                 an        Ke                                                      Ke                                                                           an
                                                                      l                                                           l                                                            l                                                                 l             Mil                                               l    Mil                                                   l         l
                 c         d                                                d           r                                                r        c                                                  c         n                                                       n                                                                            c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                      l

06:00 PM        0         0           1     1         0     0       2       0          0           7        0     1     0       8       0        0            0      0         0      0      0      1         0           0         0         0         0      1      0        0           2            0     5         0      7      0           0         0          0      0     0     0 18
06:15 PM        1         0           0     0         0     0       1       0          0           1        0     1     0       2       0        0            0      0         0      0      0      0         0           0         0         0         0      0      0        0           4            0     0         0      4      0           0         0          0      0     0     0 7
06:30 PM        0         0           0     0         0     0       0       0          0           2        0     1     0       3       0        0            0      0         0      0      0      0         0           1         0         0         0      1      0        1           1            0     2         0      4      0           0         0          0      0     0     0 8
06:45 PM        0         0           0     2         0     0       2       0          0           4        0     0     0       4       0        0            0      0         0      0      0      0         0           0         0         0         0      0      0        0           3            0     0         0      3      0           0         0          0      0     0     0 9
 Tota
       1 0 1 3 0 0                                                  5 0 0                          14       0 3 0 17 0 0 0 0 0 0                                                             0 1 0 1 0 0 0                                                     2 0 1                       10           0 7 0 18 0 0 0 0 0 0                                                              0 42
     l

07:00 PM        0         0           1     0         0     0       1       0          0           3        0     1     0       4       0        0            0      0         1      0      1      0         0           0         0         0         0      0      0        0           0            0     0         0      0      0           0         0          0      0     0     0 6
07:15 PM        0         0           0     1         0     0       1       0          0           2        0     0     0       2       0        2            0      0         0      0      2      1         0           0         0         0         0      1      0        0           1            0     0         0      1      0           0         0          0      0     0     0 7
07:30 PM        0         0           1     5         0     0       6       0          0           4        0     0     0       4       0        0            0      0         0      0      0      0         0           0         0         0         0      0      0        1           1            0     0         0      2      0           0         0          0      0     0     0 12
07:45 PM        0         0           0     0         0     0       0       0          0           0        0     0     1       1       0        1            0      0         0      0      1      0         0           0         0         0         0      0      0        1           0            0     0         0      1      0           0         0          0      0     0     0 3
 Tota
       0 0 2 6 0 0                                                  8 0 0 9 0 1 1 11 0 3 0 0 1 0                                                                                             4 1 0 0 0 0 0                                                     1 0 2 2 0 0 0                                                   4 0 0 0 0 0 0                                              0 28
     l

     Grand
                1 0 3 9 0 0 13 0 0                                                                 23       0 4 1 28 0 3 0 0 1 0                                                             4 2 0 1 0 0 0                                                     3 0 3                       12           0 7 0 22 0 0 0 0 0 0                                                              0 70
      Total

                                  23.       69.                                                    82.           14.                                                                                66.                   33.                                                  13.         54.                31.
 Apprch %       7.7
                           0
                                                      0 0                   0 0                             0          3.6
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                 75           0 0              25     0                       0                     0 0 0                             0                                 0               0             0 0 0 0 0 0
                                      1          2                                                  1              3                                                                                 7                     3                                                    6           5                      8

                                            12.                                                    32.                                                                                                                                                                                     17.
 Total %        1.4
                           0
                                  4.3                 0 0          18.6     0 0                             0    5.7   1.4     40       0        4.3
                                                                                                                                                              0          0
                                                                                                                                                                               1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                            5.7     2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0          0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.3     0        4.3                      0     10        0     31.4    0 0 0 0 0 0                                         0
                                                 9                                                  9                                                                                                                                                                                       1




                          North Spring Mill
                                                                                  Lancaster Avenue                                                Aldwyn Lane                                                      Sproul Road                                             Lancaster Avenue                                                       Kenilworth Road
                               Road
                                                                                     Westbound                                                   Northwestbound                                                    Northbound                                                 Eastbound                                                           Southeastbound
                            Southbound
                  L to                               R to                                                T to          R to                            L to                  R to    R to            L to                       T to        R to                                 L to            T to                                  L to         L to                          R to
                               L to       T to              R to    App.     L to           L to                R to            App.     L to                     T to                       App.                  L to                                R to    App.    L to                                 R to       R to    App.                             T to       R to           App.       Int.
  Start Time      Lan                                Lan                                                 Lan           SM                              Lan                   SM      Lan             Lan                        SM          Lan                                  SM              Lan                                   SM           Lan                           Lan
                               Ald        Spr               Ken     Total        Ald        Spr                 Ken             Total    Spr                      Ken                       Total              Ken                                     Ald    Total   Ken                                   Ald        Spr    Total                             Ald        Spr           Total     Total
                      c                                c                                                   c             ill                             c                     ill     c                  c                       ill         c                                      ill           c                                        ill         c                           c

Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 06:00 PM
 06:00 PM 0 0 1 1 0            2 0 0 7 0 1           8 0 0                                                                                                         0          0       0       0          1         0             0           0          0       1      0             0            2          0          5       7       0               0        0          0      0       0       18
 06:15 PM 1 0 0 0 0            1 0 0 1 0 1           2 0 0                                                                                                         0          0       0       0       0            0             0           0          0       0      0             0            4          0          0       4       0               0        0          0      0       0          7
 06:30 PM 0 0 0 0 0            0 0 0 2 0 1           3 0 0                                                                                                         0          0       0       0       0            0             1           0          0       1      0             1            1          0          2       4       0               0        0          0      0       0          8
 06:45 PM 0 0 0 2 0            2 0 0 4 0 0           4 0 0                                                                                                         0          0       0       0       0            0             0           0          0       0      0             0            3          0          0       3       0               0        0          0      0       0          9
        Total
                      1         0          1          3      0        5          0           0           14      0      3       17           0          0          0          0       0        0          1         0            1           0          0        2         0         1           10          0          7      18           0           0        0          0      0        0       42
      Volume

 % App. Total     20            0         20         60      0                    0          0           82.4
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                       17.6
                                                                                                                                             0           0          0          0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     50             0           50           0          0                  0     5.6             55.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       38.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0           0         0          0      0

         PHF
                  .250         .000       .250       .375   .000   .625      .000           .000         .500   .000   .750    .531      .000         .000        .000       .000    .000   .000     .250      .000             .250        .000       .000   .500    .000       .250            .625       .000       .350   .643    .000          .000        .000       .000   .000   .000     .583




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 149
                                                                       F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                      105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                     Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster & Ithan Avenues                                                                                                                                      File Name               : 02-30IthanEve
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code               : 00000000
EB Peds = diag peds NE-SW                                                                                                                                      Start Date              : 12/11/2012
WB Peds = diag peds NW-SE                                                                                                                                      Page No                 :1
                                                                           Groups Printed- cars - HV
                       Ithan Avenue                             Lancaster Avenue                 Ithan Avenue                                                     Lancaster Avenue
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                      Northbound                                                         Eastbound
                                                                             NW-SE                                                                                             NE-SW
 Start Time    Left Thru     Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru   Right            Peds   App. Total   Left Thru         Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru      Right            Peds    App. Total     Int. Total
                                                                              Peds                                                                                              Peds

 06:00 PM       15     51     12      10       88         44   164    19      82       94     403           7     24           9      0       40         34     178     52      35       76      375             906
 06:15 PM       11     44     12      37      104         62   144    14      78      151     449          14     26          10      4       54         27     176     49      47       92      391             998
 06:30 PM        4     32     10      39       85         65   164    26     172      236     663          16     26           6      0       48         37     170     43     137       71      458            1254
 06:45 PM        7     52     17      45      121         49   135    15     118      332     649          18     74          21      5      118         29     147     32     128       24      360            1248
     Total      37    179     51     131      398        220   607    74     450      813    2164          55    150          46      9      260        127     671    176     347      263     1584            4406

 07:00 PM        5     29      5      42       81         34   126    14      68      175     417          21     51          14      0       86         17     153     28      99       49       346            930
 07:15 PM        4     13     12      15       44         29   152     9      76       98     364          32     37          24      0       93         23     133     18      38       57       269            770
 07:30 PM       15     28     10       8       61         41   104     9      64       56     274          26     26          18      2       72         14     101     14       6       50       185            592
 07:45 PM        5     28     10       0       43         21   106    13      85       93     318          18     16          18      0       52          6     115      6       2       43       172            585
     Total      29     98     37      65      229        125   488    45     293      422    1373          97    130          74      2      303         60     502     66     145      199       972           2877

 Grand Total    66    277      88    196      627        345 1095    119 743 1235            3537         152    280        120      11      563        187 1173       242     492      462     2556            7283
 Apprch %      10.5   44.2     14    31.3                9.8   31     3.4  21 34.9                         27    49.7       21.3      2                 7.3 45.9       9.5     19.2     18.1
  Total %      0.9    3.8     1.2    2.7      8.6        4.7   15     1.6 10.2 17             48.6        2.1    3.8        1.6     0.2      7.7        2.6 16.1       3.3     6.8      6.3     35.1
      cars      65    273      85    196      619        345 1073    116 743 1235            3512         152    274        120      11      557        181 1164       241     492      462     2540            7228
   % cars      98.5   98.6   96.6    100     98.7        100   98    97.5 100 100             99.3        100    97.9       100     100     98.9        96.8    99.2   99.6    100      100     99.4            99.2
       HV        1      4       3      0        8          0   22       3    0   0              25          0          6      0       0        6           6       9      1      0        0       16              55
    % HV       1.5    1.4     3.4      0      1.3          0    2     2.5    0   0             0.7          0        2.1      0       0      1.1         3.2     0.8    0.4      0        0      0.6             0.8




                          Ithan Avenue                   Lancaster Avenue                                              Ithan Avenue                                Lancaster Avenue
                           Southbound                       Westbound                                                   Northbound                                    Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total                             Left        Thru Right App. Total                  Left Thru Right App. Total                    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 PM to 07:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 06:00 PM
    06:00 PM         15      51      12        78     44     164     19    227                                   7          24        9             40          34     178         52          264                 609
    06:15 PM         11      44      12        67     62     144     14    220                                  14          26       10             50          27      176       49           252               589
    06:30 PM          4      32      10        46     65     164     26    255                                  16          26        6             48          37      170       43           250               599
    06:45 PM          7      52      17        76     49     135     15    199                                  18          74       21           113        29         147       32           208               596
 Total Volume        37     179      51       267    220     607     74    901                               55             150       46          251       127         671      176           974              2393
 % App. Total     13.9       67    19.1             24.4    67.4    8.2                                    21.9            59.8     18.3                     13        68.9     18.1
          PHF     .617     .861    .750      .856   .846    .925   .712   .883                             .764            .507     .548         .555      .858        .942     .846           .922             .982
          cars       36     177      48       261    220     593     71    884                               55             146       46          247       122         666      176            964             2356
        % cars    97.3     98.9    94.1      97.8    100    97.7   95.9   98.1                              100            97.3      100         98.4      96.1        99.3      100           99.0             98.5
           HV         1       2       3         6      0       14     3     17                                0               4        0            4         5           5        0             10               37
         % HV       2.7     1.1     5.9       2.2      0      2.3   4.1    1.9                                0             2.7        0          1.6       3.9         0.7        0            1.0              1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                               150
                                                                     F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                    105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                   Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster & Ithan Avenues                                                                                                                                   File Name                 : 02-30IthanEve
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code                 : 00000000
EB Peds = diag peds NE-SW                                                                                                                                   Start Date                : 12/11/2012
WB Peds = diag peds NW-SE                                                                                                                                   Page No                   :1
                                                                            Groups Printed- HV
                      Ithan Avenue                            Lancaster Avenue                Ithan Avenue                                                     Lancaster Avenue
                       Southbound                                Westbound                     Northbound                                                         Eastbound
                                                                           NW-SE                                                                                              NE-SW
 Start Time    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru   Right            Peds   App. Total   Left Thru     Right     Peds   App. Total   Left Thru         Right            Peds    App. Total     Int. Total
                                                                            Peds                                                                                               Peds

 06:00 PM        0     1      1      0           2       0    6       1       0        0        7         0      1          0     0           1         2         0      0       0       0          2              12
 06:15 PM        1     1      1      0           3       0    2       2       0        0        4         0      0          0     0           0         1         3      0       0       0          4              11
 06:30 PM        0     0      1      0           1       0    2       0       0        0        2         0      0          0     0           0         1         0      0       0       0          1               4
 06:45 PM        0     0      0      0           0       0    4       0       0        0        4         0      3          0     0           3         1         2      0       0       0          3              10
     Total       1     2      3      0           6       0   14       3       0        0       17         0      4          0     0           4         5         5      0       0       0         10              37

 07:00 PM        0     1      0      0           1       0    2       0       0        0          2       0      0          0     0           0         1         1      0       0       0            2             5
 07:15 PM        0     0      0      0           0       0    2       0       0        0          2       0      1          0     0           1         0         2      0       0       0            2             5
 07:30 PM        0     1      0      0           1       0    4       0       0        0          4       0      0          0     0           0         0         0      0       0       0            0             5
 07:45 PM        0     0      0      0           0       0    0       0       0        0          0       0      1          0     0           1         0         1      1       0       0            2             3
     Total       0     2      0      0           2       0    8       0       0        0          8       0      2          0     0           2         1         4      1       0       0            6            18

 Grand Total     1      4    3       0           8       0   22       3       0        0       25         0     6           0     0           6         6         9      1       0       0         16              55
 Apprch %      12.5    50 37.5       0                   0   88      12       0        0                  0   100           0     0                 37.5     56.2      6.2       0       0
  Total %      1.8    7.3 5.5        0     14.5          0   40     5.5       0        0    45.5          0   10.9          0     0     10.9        10.9     16.4      1.8       0       0      29.1




                          Ithan Avenue                   Lancaster Avenue                                        Ithan Avenue                                   Lancaster Avenue
                           Southbound                       Westbound                                             Northbound                                       Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total                           Left    Thru Right App. Total                     Left Thru Right App. Total                      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 06:00 PM
    06:00 PM          0       1       1         2      0       6      1      7                              0          1           0                1         2          0        0               2                 12
    06:15 PM          1       1       1         3      0       2      2      4                              0          0           0                0      1             3        0               4                 11
    06:30 PM          0       0       1         1      0       2      0      2                              0          0           0                0      1             0        0              1                   4
    06:45 PM          0       0       0         0      0       4      0      4                              0          3           0                3      1             2        0              3                  10
 Total Volume         1       2       3         6      0      14      3     17                              0           4          0                4      5             5        0             10                  37
 % App. Total     16.7     33.3      50                0    82.4   17.6                                     0         100          0                      50            50        0
          PHF     .250     .500    .750      .500   .000    .583   .375   .607                           .000        .333       .000         .333       .625          .417     .000           .625               .771




                                                                                                                                                                                                              151
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Sproul & Conestoga Roads                                                                                                                 File Name           : 05-sprconeve
                                                                                                                                         Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                         Start Date          : 12/11/2012
                                                                                                                                         Page No             :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Sproul Road                          Conestoga Road                     Sproul Road                                     Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds          App. Total    Int. Total
  06:00 PM      17   61    17     1        96         6     74    10     0       90    35    37     7    0                    79        24 172     44     0             240           505
  06:15 PM      21   42    25     0        88         5    106     7     0    118      21    44    12    0                    77        28 150     39     0             217           500
  06:30 PM      29   40    18     0        87         9     72    10     0       91    22    32     8    0                    62        27 150     60     0             237           477
  06:45 PM      16   43    18     0        77         7     66    10     0       83    25    31     3    0                    59        26   94    32     0             152           371
      Total     83 186     78     1       348        27    318    37     0    382 103 144          30    0                   277       105 566 175        0             846          1853

  07:00 PM       9    31    15     0       55         8     75    14      0     97    21      22         4          0         47        17     82      42        0      141           340
  07:15 PM       8    22    10     0       40         4     79     5      0     88    27      29         4          0         60         8     71      37        0      116           304
  07:30 PM       6    29     7     0       42         3     60     3      0     66    14      18         7          0         39        11     47      31        0       89           236
  07:45 PM      10    28    10     0       48         3     69     2      0     74    18      10         1          0         29        10     43      28        0       81           232
      Total     33   110    42     0      185        18    283    24      0    325    80      79        16          0        175        46    243     138        0      427          1112

 Grand Total116 296 120            1      533         45 601      61      0    707    183 223    46                 0        452        151 809 313              0    1273           2965
  Apprch % 21.8 55.5 22.5        0.2                 6.4   85    8.6      0          40.5 49.3 10.2                 0                  11.9 63.6 24.6            0
   Total %  3.9   10    4          0       18        1.5 20.3    2.1      0   23.8    6.2  7.5  1.6                 0       15.2        5.1 27.3 10.6            0    42.9
       cars 116 295 119            1      531         43 597      61      0    701    183 221    45                 0        449        151 809 312              0    1272           2953
    % cars 100 99.7 99.2         100     99.6       95.6 99.3    100      0   99.2    100 99.1 97.8                 0       99.3        100 100 99.7             0    99.9           99.6
        HV    0    1    1          0        2          2    4      0      0      6      0    2    1                 0          3          0    0    1            0       1             12
     % HV     0  0.3  0.8          0      0.4        4.4  0.7      0      0    0.8      0  0.9  2.2                 0        0.7          0    0  0.3            0     0.1            0.4




                          Sproul Road                     Conestoga Road                      Sproul Road                                   Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                        Westbound                         Northbound                                      Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left   Thru Right                App. Total      Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 PM to 07:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 06:00 PM
    06:00 PM        17       61      17        95       6      74   10      90          35         37          7               79        24     172         44        240              504
    06:15 PM        21       42      25        88       5    106     7    118           21         44         12              77         28     150         39        217             500
    06:30 PM        29       40      18        87       9      72   10      91          22       32             8             62         27     150         60        237             477
    06:45 PM        16       43      18        77       7      66   10      83          25       31             3             59         26      94       32          152             371
 Total Volume       83      186      78       347      27    318    37    382          103      144            30            277        105     566      175          846            1852
 % App. Total     23.9     53.6    22.5               7.1   83.2   9.7                37.2       52          10.8                      12.4    66.9     20.7
          PHF     .716     .762    .780      .913   .750    .750  .925   .809         .736     .818          .625           .877       .938    .823     .729         .881            .919
          cars      83      185      78       346      25    314    37    376          103      143            30            276        105     566      174          845            1843
        % cars     100     99.5     100      99.7   92.6    98.7   100   98.4          100     99.3           100           99.6        100     100     99.4         99.9            99.5
           HV         0       1       0         1       2       4    0       6           0        1             0              1          0       0        1            1               9
         % HV         0     0.5       0       0.3     7.4     1.3    0     1.6           0      0.7             0            0.4          0       0      0.6          0.1             0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                    152
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Sproul & Conestoga Roads                                                                                                             File Name          : 05-sprconeve
                                                                                                                                     Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                                     Start Date         : 12/11/2012
                                                                                                                                     Page No            :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Sproul Road                          Conestoga Road                    Sproul Road                                  Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds            App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  06:00 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0     0                   0       0     0    1     0                  1            2
  06:15 PM       0     0    0     0           0       1       2    0     0        3     0     1    0     0                   1       0     0    0     0                  0            4
  06:30 PM       0     1    0     0           1       1       0    0     0        1     0     0    0     0                   0       0     0    0     0                  0            2
  06:45 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0     0                   0       0     0    0     0                  0            1
      Total      0     1    0     0           1       2       4    0     0        6     0     1    0     0                   1       0     0    1     0                  1            9

  07:00 PM       0     0     1     0          1       0      0     0      0      0     0     1       0          0            1       0      0      0        0            0            2
  07:15 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0       1          0            1       0      0      0        0            0            1
  07:30 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0       0          0            0       0      0      0        0            0            0
  07:45 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0       0          0            0       0      0      0        0            0            0
      Total      0     0     1     0          1       0      0     0      0      0     0     1       1          0            2       0      0      0        0            0            3

 Grand Total     0     1     1     0          2  2    4            0      0      6     0    2    1              0            3       0      0       1       0            1         12
  Apprch %       0    50    50     0          33.3 66.7            0      0            0 66.7 33.3              0                    0      0     100       0
   Total %       0   8.3   8.3     0     16.7 16.7 33.3            0      0     50     0 16.7  8.3              0          25        0      0     8.3       0       8.3




                          Sproul Road                    Conestoga Road                      Sproul Road                               Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                         Northbound                                  Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left   Thru Right             App. Total     Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 06:00 PM
    06:00 PM          0       0       0         0      0      1     0        1           0       0          0                0        0       0         1            1                2
    06:15 PM          0       0       0         0      1      2     0        3           0       1          0                1        0       0        0             0                4
    06:30 PM          0       1       0         1      1      0     0        1           0      0           0                0        0       0        0             0                2
    06:45 PM          0       0       0         0      0      1     0        1           0      0           0                0        0       0        0             0                1
 Total Volume         0       1       0         1      2      4     0        6           0      1           0                1        0       0        1             1                9
 % App. Total         0     100       0             33.3   66.7     0                    0    100           0                         0       0      100
          PHF     .000     .250    .000      .250   .500   .500  .000    .500         .000   .250        .000           .250       .000    .000     .250        .250             .563




                                                                                                                                                                               153
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga & Spring Mill Roads                                                                                 File Name       : 06-ConSpMEve
                                                                                                              Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                              Start Date      : 12/11/2012
                                                                                                              Page No         :1
                                                                Groups Printed- cars - HV
                              Spring Mill Road                        Conestoga Road                          Conestoga Road
                                Southbound                               Westbound                              Eastbound
       Start Time      Left    Right     Peds App. Total        Thru    Right    Peds App. Total      Left     Thru    Peds App. Total   Int. Total
        06:00 PM         2         3        0         5           91        0        0       91         0       200       0       200          296
        06:15 PM         2         1        0         3          120        0        0      120         0       187       0       187          310
        06:30 PM         1         1        0         2           87        2        0       89         0       186       0       186          277
        06:45 PM         1         0        0         1           83        0        0       83         1       112       0       113          197
             Total       6         5        0        11          381        2        0      383         1       685       0       686         1080

        07:00 PM          1         1        0           2       100           2           0   102      1        95       0         96        200
        07:15 PM          0         1        0           1        88           0           0    88      2        80       0         82        171
        07:30 PM          0         0        0           0        60           0           0    60      2        64       0         66        126
        07:45 PM          2         0        0           2        79           0           0    79      0        51       0         51        132
            Total         3         2        0           5       327           2           0   329      5       290       0        295        629

      Grand Total         9        7         0          16      708             4          0   712      6      975        0        981       1709
       Apprch %        56.2     43.8         0                  99.4          0.6          0          0.6      99.4       0
         Total %        0.5      0.4         0         0.9      41.4          0.2          0   41.7   0.4      57.1       0       57.4
            cars          9        7         0          16      702             4          0   706      6      974        0       980        1702
          % cars       100      100          0         100      99.2          100          0   99.2   100      99.9       0       99.9       99.6
             HV           0        0         0           0         6            0          0      6     0         1       0          1          7
           % HV           0        0         0           0       0.8            0          0    0.8     0       0.1       0        0.1        0.4




                                   Spring Mill Road                     Conestoga Road                     Conestoga Road
                                     Southbound                           Westbound                          Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Right    App. Total       Thru     Right   App. Total         Left     Thru   App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 PM to 07:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 06:00 PM
             06:00 PM             2           3             5            91            0        91        0         200         200           296
             06:15 PM             2           1             3           120            0       120        0         187         187           310
             06:30 PM             1           1             2            87            2        89        0         186         186           277
             06:45 PM             1           0             1            83            0        83        1         112         113           197
        Total Volume              6           5            11           381            2       383        1         685         686          1080
         % App. Total          54.5        45.5                        99.5          0.5                0.1        99.9
                  PHF          .750        .417          .550          .794         .250       .798    .250        .856         .858         .871
                   cars           6           5            11           375            2        377       1         685          686         1074
                % cars          100         100           100          98.4          100       98.4     100         100          100         99.4
                    HV            0           0             0             6            0          6       0           0            0            6
                 % HV             0           0             0           1.6            0        1.6       0           0            0          0.6




                                                                                                                                            154
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga & Spring Mill Roads                                                                               File Name       : 06-ConSpMEve
                                                                                                            Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                            Start Date      : 12/11/2012
                                                                                                            Page No         :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- HV
                              Spring Mill Road                       Conestoga Road                         Conestoga Road
                                Southbound                              Westbound                             Eastbound
       Start Time      Left    Right     Peds App. Total        Thru   Right    Peds App. Total     Left     Thru    Peds App. Total     Int. Total
        06:00 PM         0         0        0         0            1      0        0         1        0         0       0         0              1
        06:15 PM         0         0        0         0            3      0        0         3        0         0       0         0              3
        06:30 PM         0         0        0         0            1      0        0         1        0         0       0         0              1
        06:45 PM         0         0        0         0            1      0        0         1        0         0       0         0              1
             Total       0         0        0         0            6      0        0         6        0         0       0         0              6

        07:00 PM          0         0        0           0        0           0          0      0     0         0       0            0            0
        07:15 PM          0         0        0           0        0           0          0      0     0         1       0            1            1
        07:30 PM          0         0        0           0        0           0          0      0     0         0       0            0            0
        07:45 PM          0         0        0           0        0           0          0      0     0         0       0            0            0
            Total         0         0        0           0        0           0          0      0     0         1       0            1            1

      Grand Total         0         0        0           0         6          0          0      6     0         1       0            1            7
       Apprch %           0         0        0                  100           0          0            0      100        0
         Total %          0         0        0           0      85.7          0          0   85.7     0      14.3       0       14.3




                                   Spring Mill Road                    Conestoga Road                    Conestoga Road
                                     Southbound                          Westbound                         Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Right    App. Total      Thru     Right   App. Total        Left     Thru   App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 06:00 PM
             06:00 PM             0           0             0             1          0         1        0           0           0                 1
             06:15 PM             0           0             0             3          0         3        0           0           0                 3
             06:30 PM             0           0             0             1          0         1        0           0           0                 1
             06:45 PM             0           0             0             1          0         1        0           0           0                 1
        Total Volume              0           0             0             6          0         6        0           0           0                 6
         % App. Total             0           0                         100          0                  0           0
                  PHF          .000        .000          .000          .500       .000       .500    .000        .000         .000            .500




                                                                                                                                            155
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Ithan Avenue                                                                                                              File Name          : 07-conitheve
                                                                                                                                           Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                                           Start Date         : 12/11/2012
                                                                                                                                           Page No            :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Ithan Avenue                         Conestoga Road                    Ithan Avenue                                   Conestoga Road
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds              App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  06:00 PM       9     9   13     0         31        3     72    11     0       86     0    13     4    0                   17       31 126      2     0            159           293
  06:15 PM       2     7   14     0         23        2     97    17     0    116       1    25     1    0                   27       38 126      1     0            165           331
  06:30 PM       7     1   11     0         19        3     76    25     0    104       0    22     3    0                   25       49 124      1     0            174           322
  06:45 PM       6     3   17     0         26        3     61    16     0       80     1    15     0    0                   16       28   79     0     0            107           229
      Total     24   20    55     0         99       11    306    69     0    386       2    75     8    0                   85      146 455      4     0            605          1175

  07:00 PM       9     4    21     0       34         0     69     6      0     75     1        7        0          0         8       11     74      1        0       86           203
  07:15 PM      12    12    17     0       41         1     57    11      0     69     0        6        2          0         8       10     49      0        0       59           177
  07:30 PM       2     4     6     0       12         0     55     6      0     61     0        2        0          0         2        8     45      1        0       54           129
  07:45 PM       5     1    10     0       16         0     55     3      0     58     0        0        1          0         1        7     31      0        0       38           113
      Total     28    21    54     0      103         1    236    26      0    263     1       15        3          0        19       36    199      2        0      237           622

 Grand Total 52   41 109           0      202        12 542   95          0    649     3   90   11                  0      104        182 654         6       0      842          1797
  Apprch % 25.7 20.3  54           0                1.8 83.5 14.6         0          2.9 86.5 10.6                  0                21.6 77.7      0.7       0
   Total %  2.9  2.3 6.1           0     11.2       0.7 30.2  5.3         0   36.1   0.2    5  0.6                  0      5.8       10.1 36.4      0.3       0     46.9
       cars  52   41 106           0      199        12 540   95          0    647     3   90   11                  0      104        180 654         6       0      840          1790
    % cars 100 100 97.2            0     98.5       100 99.6 100          0   99.7   100 100 100                    0      100       98.9 100       100       0     99.8          99.6
        HV    0    0   3           0        3         0    2    0         0      2     0    0    0                  0        0          2    0        0       0        2             7
     % HV     0    0 2.8           0      1.5         0  0.4    0         0    0.3     0    0    0                  0        0        1.1    0        0       0      0.2           0.4




                          Ithan Avenue                    Conestoga Road                       Ithan Avenue                               Conestoga Road
                           Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                                  Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left      Thru Right App. Total                 Left Thru Right App. Total               Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 PM to 07:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 06:00 PM
    06:00 PM          9       9      13        31       3      72   11      86             0        13         4             17        31     126         2        159              293
    06:15 PM          2       7      14        23       2      97   17    116              1        25          1            27        38     126        1         165              331
    06:30 PM          7       1      11        19       3      76   25    104            0        22            3            25        49     124        1         174             322
    06:45 PM          6       3      17        26       3      61   16      80           1        15            0            16        28      79        0         107             229
 Total Volume       24       20      55        99      11    306    69    386            2        75            8            85       146     455        4         605            1175
 % App. Total     24.2     20.2    55.6               2.8   79.3  17.9                 2.4      88.2          9.4                    24.1    75.2      0.7
          PHF     .667     .556    .809      .798   .917    .789  .690   .832         .500      .750         .500         .787       .745    .903     .500        .869            .887
          cars      24       20      52        96      11    304    69    384            2        75            8           85        145     455        4         604            1169
        % cars     100      100    94.5      97.0    100    99.3   100   99.5          100       100          100          100       99.3     100      100        99.8            99.5
           HV         0       0       3         3       0       2    0       2           0         0            0            0          1       0        0           1               6
         % HV         0       0     5.5       3.0       0     0.7    0     0.5           0         0            0            0        0.7       0        0         0.2             0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                 156
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Conestoga Road & Ithan Avenue                                                                                                         File Name       : 07-conitheve
                                                                                                                                      Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                      Start Date      : 12/11/2012
                                                                                                                                      Page No         :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Ithan Avenue                         Conestoga Road                    Ithan Avenue                              Conestoga Road
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
  06:00 PM       0     0    1     0           1       0       0    0     0        0     0     0     0    0                0       1     0    0     0               1            2
  06:15 PM       0     0    1     0           1       0       2    0     0        2     0     0     0    0                0       0     0    0     0               0            3
  06:30 PM       0     0    1     0           1       0       0    0     0        0     0     0     0    0                0       0     0    0     0               0            1
  06:45 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       0    0     0        0     0     0     0    0                0       0     0    0     0               0            0
      Total      0     0    3     0           3       0       2    0     0        2     0     0     0    0                0       1     0    0     0               1            6

  07:00 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
  07:15 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       1      0     0      0            1            1
  07:30 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
  07:45 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      0     0      0            0            0
      Total      0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       1      0     0      0            1            1

 Grand Total     0     0    3      0          3       0    2       0      0      2     0     0      0          0          0    2         0     0      0            2            7
  Apprch %       0     0 100       0                  0 100        0      0            0     0      0          0             100         0     0      0
   Total %       0     0 42.9      0     42.9         0 28.6       0      0   28.6     0     0      0          0          0 28.6         0     0      0     28.6




                          Ithan Avenue                   Conestoga Road                      Ithan Avenue                           Conestoga Road
                           Southbound                      Westbound                          Northbound                              Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left    Thru Right App. Total             Left Thru Right App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 06:00 PM
    06:00 PM          0       0       1         1      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0       1        0      0            1                2
    06:15 PM          0       0       1         1      0      2     0        2           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                3
    06:30 PM          0       0       1         1      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                1
    06:45 PM          0       0       0         0      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0       0      0            0                0
 Total Volume         0       0       3         3      0      2     0        2           0      0          0              0        1       0      0            1                6
 % App. Total         0       0     100                0    100     0                    0      0          0                     100       0      0
          PHF     .000     .000    .750      .750   .000   .250  .000    .250         .000   .000       .000         .000       .250    .000   .000       .250             .500




                                                                                                                                                                         157
                                                                                                   F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                                               Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster Avenue & Spring Mill/Sproul Rd                                                                                                                                                                      File Name                    : 30SproulSat
& Kenilworth Rd/Aldwyn Ln                                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code                    : 00000000
Homecoming                                                                                                                                                                                                    Start Date                   : 10/27/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Page No                      :1
                                                                                                              Groups Printed- cars - HV
                   North Spring Mill
                                                           Lancaster Avenue                         Aldwyn Lane                                Sproul Road                        Lancaster Avenue                             Kenilworth Road
                        Road
                                                              Westbound                            Northwestbound                              Northbound                            Eastbound                                 Southeastbound
                     Southbound
                                                                                                                                                                                      Lt                                 Lt
             Lt     Lt                                Lt    Lt                               Lt     Lt                                 Lt    Lt                                 Lt                                              Lt
                                               App.                                   App.                                      App.                                     App.          o                          App.    o                               App.     Int.
             oL      o                                o      o                                o     oL                                 oL     o                                  o                                              oL
Start Time                                     Tota                                   Tota                                      Tota                                     Tota          S                          Tota    S                               Tota    Tota
             an     Al                                Al    Sp                               Sp     an                                 an    Ke                                 Ke                                              an
                                                  l                                      l                                         l                                        l         Mil                            l   Mil                                 l        l
              c      d                                d       r                                r     c                                  c     n                                  n                                               c
                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                  l

                                                                  17                                                                                                                        23
12:00 PM     10     0    28    42    0 0 80 0 4                         0 8 0         191    1      10    0 0 3 0 14                   44    0     31    1 0 0 76 1                   52          21    51    0   355    0 1 0 1 3 0                       5      721
                                                                   9                                                                                                                         0

                                                                  20                                                                                                                        20
12:15 PM     5 0         24    54    0 0 83 0 1                         0   16    0   221    0      13    0 1 0 0 14                   46    1     25    8 1 0 81 0                   60          19    30    0   316    0 0 0 1 1 0                       2      717
                                                                   4                                                                                                                         7

                                                                  17                                                                                                                        18
12:30 PM     14     0    20    52    0 0 86 0 2                         0 5 0         181    2 5 0 1 0 0                         8     51    0     26    5 2 0 84 0                   66          11    35    0   300    0 0 0 0 4 0                       4      663
                                                                   4                                                                                                                         8

                                                                  15                                                                                                                        23
12:45 PM     11     0    18    40    0   11    80     0 2               0 9 0         166    1      13    0 2 1 3 20                   54    0     16    4 0 0 74 1                   64          14    38    0   356    0 0 0 1 1 0                       2      698
                                                                   5                                                                                                                         9

Tota                           18                                 71                                                                   19                                             24    86          15
             40     0    90          0   11    329    0 9               0   38    0   759    4      41    0 4 4 3 56                         1     98    18    3 0       315    2                 65          0   1327   0 1 0 3 9 0 13                           2799
    l                           8                                  2                                                                    5                                              2     4           4




                                                                  18                                                                                                                        17
01:00 PM     11     0    24    50    0 2 87 0 7                         0 9 0         198    0 6 0 2 0 0                         8     32    0     23    7 0 0 62 1                   53          10    37    0   278    0 0 0 0 4 0                       4      637
                                                                   2                                                                                                                         7

                                                                  16                                                                                                                        20
01:15 PM     17     0    20    41    0 6 84 0 2                         0 7 0         171    0      11    0 2 0 0 13                   37    0     21    8 5 0 71 2                   45          13    32    0   295    0 0 0 1 4 0                       5      639
                                                                   2                                                                                                                         3

                                                                  20                                                                                                                        19
01:30 PM     15     0    15    66    0 0 96 0 4                         0 6 0         216    0 6 0 0 1 3 10                            27    0     16    4 1 0 48 2                   44          13    39    0   292    1 0 0 0 1 0                       2      664
                                                                   6                                                                                                                         4

                                                                  17                                                                                                                        19
01:45 PM     15     0    21    60    0 2 98 0 2                         0 7 0         182    0 5 0 2 1 0                         8     29    0     18    5 1 0 53 3                   56          11    27    0   288    0 0 0 1 1 0                       2      631
                                                                   3                                                                                                                         1

Tota                           21                                 72                                                                   12                                             19    76          13
             58     0    80          0   10    365    0     15          0   29    0   767    0      28    0 6 2 3 39                         0     78    24    7 0       234    8                 47          0   1153   1 0 0 2                10    0 13        2571
    l                           7                                  3                                                                    5                                              8     5           5




                                                                  17                                                                                                                        15
02:00 PM     27     0    24    59    0 5       115    0 7               0 9 0         193    0      10    0 0 0 0 10                   33    0     23    2 1 0 59 2                   43          19    31    0   254    0 0 0 0 3 0                       3      634
                                                                   7                                                                                                                         9

                                                                  17                                                                                                                        15
02:15 PM     10     0    27    57    0 3 97 0 4                         0   11    0   191    2 6 0 0 1 0                         9     26    0     17    3 1 0 47 0                   37          9     27    0   225    1 0 0 1 1 0                       3      572
                                                                   6                                                                                                                         2

                                                                  17                                                                                                                        17
02:30 PM     7 0         23    73    0 0       103    0 3               0 7 0         189    0      10    0 0 0 0 10                   30    0     16    3 0 0 49 3                   45          11    34    0   263    0 1 0 0 5 0                       6      620
                                                                   9                                                                                                                         0

                                                                  18                                                                                                                        14
02:45 PM     7 0         19    61    0 4 91 0 3                         0 4 0         190    0      14    0 0 1 0 15                   26    0     18    5 2 0 51 1                   51          13    35    0   242    0 0 0 0 1 0                       1      590
                                                                   3                                                                                                                         2

Tota                           25                                 71                                                                   11                                             17    62          12
             51     0    93          0   12    406    0     17          0   31    0   763    2      40    0 0 2 0 44                         0     74    13    4 0       206    6                 52          0   984    1 1 0 1                10    0 13        2416
    l                           0                                  5                                                                    5                                              6     3           7




    Grand    14          26    65                                 21                                10                                 43          25                                 61    22    16    41
                    0                0   33    1100   0     41          0   98    0   2289   6            0   10    8 6         139          1           55    14    0   755    16                            0   3464   2 2 0 6                29    0 39        7786
     Total    9           3     5                                 50                                 9                                  5           0                                  6    52     4     6

             13.         23.   59.                                93.                               78.                                57.         33.                                17.                                                 15.   74.
Apprch %            0                0 3              0     1.8         0   4.3
                                                                                  0
                                                                                             4.3          0   7.2   5.8   4.3                0.1         7.3   1.9
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                0.5         65    4.7   12    0          5.1    5.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
              5           9     5                                  9                                 4                                  6           1                                  8                                                   4     4

                                                                  27.                                                                                                                       28.
Total %      1.9
                     0
                         3.4   8.4
                                     0
                                         0.4   14.1   0     0.5         0   1.3
                                                                                  0
                                                                                      29.4   0.1    1.4
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                              0.1   0.1   0.1   1.8    5.6
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                   3.2   0.7   0.2
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                         9.7    0.2   7.9         2.1   5.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  44.5   0 0 0            0.1   0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5
                                                                   6                                                                                                                         9


   cars      14
                    0    25    64
                                     0   33    1078   0     41
                                                                  21
                                                                        0   96    0   2243   6      10
                                                                                                          0   10    7 6         138
                                                                                                                                       42
                                                                                                                                             1     24
                                                                                                                                                         51    14    0   735    16
                                                                                                                                                                                      61    22    16    40
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0   3424   2 2 0 5                29    0    3      7656
              5           7     3                                 06                                 9                                  6           3                                  2    23     4     9                                                 8
             97.         97.   98.       10                 10                               10     10        10    87.   10           97.   10    97.   92.   10               10    99.   98.   10    98.              10     10        83.   10
% cars              0                0         98     0           98    0   98    0 98                    0                     99.3                                 0   97.4                                 0   98.8                0               0   97.4    98.3
              3           7     2         0                  0                                0      0         0     5     0            9     0     2     7     0                0     4     7     0     3                0      0         3     0

   HV 4 0 6                    12    0 0 22 0 0                   44    0 2 0 46 0 0 0 0 1 0                                     1 9 0 7 4 0 0 20 0 4                                       29    0 7 0 40 0 0 0 1 0 0                                     1      130
                                                                                                                    12.                                                                                                                   16.
% HV         2.7
                     0
                         2.3   1.8
                                     0    0       2    0     0     2    0    2    0      2    0      0    0    0
                                                                                                                          0     0.7    2.1
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                   2.8   7.3
                                                                                                                                                                0    0
                                                                                                                                                                         2.6     0    0.6   1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.2     0      0    0         0 0       2.6     1.7
                                                                                                                     5                                                                                                                     7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 158
                                                                                                                                             F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                         105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                                                                                                        Philadelphia, PA 19147


Lancaster Avenue & Spring Mill/Sproul Rd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   File Name                                  : 30SproulSat
& Kenilworth Rd/Aldwyn Ln                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code                                  : 00000000
Homecoming                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Start Date                                 : 10/27/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Page No                                    :1
                                                                                                                                                                             Groups Printed- HV
                      North Spring Mill
                                                                                 Lancaster Avenue                                             Aldwyn Lane                                                     Sproul Road                                            Lancaster Avenue                                                       Kenilworth Road
                           Road
                                                                                    Westbound                                                Northwestbound                                                   Northbound                                                Eastbound                                                           Southeastbound
                        Southbound
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lt                                                      Lt
                Lt        Lt                                                Lt         Lt                                               Lt       Lt                                                Lt        Lt                                                    Lt                                                                            Lt
                                                                   App.                                                        App.                                                        App.                                                            App.              o                                              App.     o                                                       App.      Int.
                oL         o                                                o           o                                                o       oL                                                oL         o                                                     o                                                                           oL
 Start Time                                                        Tota                                                        Tota                                                        Tota                                                            Tota              S                                              Tota     S                                                       Tota     Tota
                an        Al                                                Al         Sp                                               Sp       an                                                an        Ke                                                    Ke                                                                            an
                                                                      l                                                           l                                                           l                                                               l             Mil                                                l    Mil                                                         l         l
                 c         d                                                d           r                                                r        c                                                 c         n                                                     n                                                                             c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l                                                       l

12:00 PM        0         0           1     2         0     0       3       0          0           4        0     0     0       4       0        0           0      0         0      0      0      2         0           0         0       0         0      2      0        2           3            0     0         0       5      0           0         0          0        0         0     0       14
12:15 PM        0         0           0     1         0     0       1       0          0           3        0     1     0       4       0        0           0      0         0      0      0      1         0           1         0       0         0      2      0        0           1            0     1         0       2      0           0         0          1        0         0     1       10
12:30 PM        0         0           1     2         0     0       3       0          0           3        0     0     0       3       0        0           0      0         0      0      0      2         0           2         1       0         0      5      0        0           2            0     0         0       2      0           0         0          0        0         0     0       13
12:45 PM        0         0           0     1         0     0       1       0          0           3        0     0     0       3       0        0           0      0         0      0      0      0         0           0         0       0         0      0      0        0           6            0     0         0       6      0           0         0          0        0         0     0       10
 Tota
       0 0 2 6 0 0                                                  8 0 0                          13       0 1 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0                                                            0 5 0 3 1 0 0                                                   9 0 2                       12           0 1 0 15 0 0 0 1 0 0                                                                     1 47
     l

01:00 PM        0         0           0     2         0     0       2       0          0           6        0     0     0       6       0        0           0      0         0      0      0      1         0           0         0       0         0      1      0        1           3            0     1         0       5      0           0         0          0        0         0     0 14
01:15 PM        0         0           0     0         0     0       0       0          0           3        0     0     0       3       0        0           0      0         0      0      0      1         0           3         1       0         0      5      0        0           2            0     1         0       3      0           0         0          0        0         0     0 11
01:30 PM        1         0           0     2         0     0       3       0          0           1        0     0     0       1       0        0           0      0         1      0      1      0         0           0         1       0         0      1      0        1           4            0     0         0       5      0           0         0          0        0         0     0 11
01:45 PM        0         0           2     1         0     0       3       0          0           5        0     0     0       5       0        0           0      0         0      0      0      0         0           1         0       0         0      1      0        0           0            0     0         0       0      0           0         0          0        0         0     0 9
 Tota
       1 0 2 5 0 0                                                  8 0 0                          15       0 0 0 15 0 0 0 0 1 0                                                            1 2 0 4 2 0 0                                                   8 0 2 9 0 2 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 0                                                                                                      0 45
     l

02:00 PM        2         0           0     0         0     0       2       0          0           3        0     1     0       4       0        0           0      0         0      0      0      0         0           0         0       0         0      0      0        0           3            0     1         0       4      0           0         0          0        0         0     0 10
02:15 PM        0         0           1     0         0     0       1       0          0           4        0     0     0       4       0        0           0      0         0      0      0      0         0           0         0       0         0      0      0        0           0            0     1         0       1      0           0         0          0        0         0     0 6
02:30 PM        0         0           0     0         0     0       0       0          0           7        0     0     0       7       0        0           0      0         0      0      0      2         0           0         0       0         0      2      0        0           4            0     2         0       6      0           0         0          0        0         0     0 15
02:45 PM        1         0           1     1         0     0       3       0          0           2        0     0     0       2       0        0           0      0         0      0      0      0         0           0         1       0         0      1      0        0           1            0     0         0       1      0           0         0          0        0         0     0 7
 Tota
       3 0 2 1 0 0                                                  6 0 0                          16       0 1 0 17 0 0 0 0 0 0                                                            0 2 0 0 1 0 0                                                   3 0 0 8 0 4 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 0                                                                                                      0 38
     l

     Grand
                4 0 6                       12        0 0 22 0 0                                   44       0 2 0 46 0 0 0 0 1 0                                                            1 9 0 7 4 0 0 20 0 4                                                                        29           0 7 0 40 0 0 0 1 0 0                                                                     1       130
      Total

                18.               27.       54.                                                    95.                                                                        10                                                                                                        72.                17.                                                       10
 Apprch %                 0                           0 0                   0 0                             0    4.3
                                                                                                                         0               0        0          0          0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0             45        0           35        20      0 0                     0        10                       0               0              0 0 0                                     0 0
                 2                    3          5                                                  7                                                                           0                                                                                                        5                      5                                                     0

                                                                                                   33.                                                                                                                                                                                  22.
 Total %        3.1
                           0
                                  4.6       9.2
                                                        0     0
                                                                   16.9     0 0                             0    1.5
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                               35.4     0 0 0 0                               0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8     6.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.4       3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15.4    0        3.1                      0     5.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30.8    0 0 0                            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8
                                                                                                    8                                                                                                                                                                                    3




                          North Spring Mill
                                                                                  Lancaster Avenue                                                Aldwyn Lane                                                     Sproul Road                                           Lancaster Avenue                                                        Kenilworth Road
                               Road
                                                                                     Westbound                                                   Northwestbound                                                   Northbound                                               Eastbound                                                            Southeastbound
                            Southbound
                  L to                               R to                                                T to          R to                           L to                  R to    R to            L to                       T to      R to                                 L to            T to                                   L to         L to                                R to
                               L to       T to              R to    App.     L to           L to                R to            App.     L to                    T to                       App.                  L to                              R to    App.    L to                                 R to       R to     App.                             T to         R to               App.       Int.
   Start Time     Lan                                Lan                                                 Lan           SM                             Lan                   SM      Lan             Lan                        SM        Lan                                  SM              Lan                                    SM           Lan                                 Lan
                               Ald        Spr               Ken     Total        Ald        Spr                 Ken             Total    Spr                     Ken                       Total              Ken                                   Ald    Total   Ken                                   Ald        Spr     Total                             Ald          Spr               Total     Total
                      c                                c                                                   c             ill                            c                     ill     c                  c                       ill       c                                      ill           c                                         ill         c                                 c

Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 12:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
 12:00 PM 0 0 1 2 0            3 0 0 4 0 0           4 0 0                                                                                                        0          0       0       0          2         0             0         0          0       2      0             2            3          0          0        5       0               0        0            0          0       0       14
 12:15 PM 0 0 0 1 0            1 0 0 3 0 1           4 0 0                                                                                                        0          0       0       0       1            0             1         0          0       2      0             0            1          0          1        2       0               0        0            1          0       1       10
 12:30 PM 0 0 1 2 0            3 0 0 3 0 0           3 0 0                                                                                                        0          0       0       0       2            0             2         1          0       5      0             0            2          0          0        2       0               0        0            0          0       0       13
 12:45 PM 0 0 0 1 0            1 0 0 3 0 0           3 0 0                                                                                                        0          0       0       0       0            0             0         0          0       0      0             0            6          0          0        6       0               0        0            0          0       0       10
        Total
                      0         0          2          6      0        8          0           0           13      0      1        14          0         0          0          0       0        0          5         0            3         1          0        9         0         2           12          0          1       15           0           0        0            1          0        1       47
      Volume

 % App. Total                             25         75      0                    0          0           92.9
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                       7.1                                                                          55.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               33.3      11.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13.3            80          0         6.7                                                    100

   PHF            .000         .000       .500       .750   .000   .667      .000           .000         .813   .000   .250    .875      .000         .000       .000       .000    .000   .000     .625      .000             .375      .250       .000   .450    .000       .250            .500       .000       .250    .625    .000          .000        .000         .250       .000   .250     .839




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     160
                                                                         F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan and 30                                                                                                                                                               File Name            : 30IthanSAT
Homecoming                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code            : 00111111
EB Peds = diag peds NE-SW                                                                                                                                                  Start Date           : 10/27/2012
WB Peds = diag peds NW-SE                                                                                                                                                  Page No              :1
                                                                               Groups Printed- cars - HV
                       Ithan Avenue                                Lacaster Avenue                    Ithan Avenue                                                         Lacaster Avenue
                        Southbound                                   Westbound                         Northbound                                                            Eastbound
                                                                               NW-SE                                                                                                 NE-SW
 Start Time    Left Thru     Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru     Right            Peds   App. Total   Left Thru         Right   Peds   App. Total    Left Thru         Right            Peds    App. Total     Int. Total
                                                                                Peds                                                                                                  Peds

 12:00 PM        9     15     14      29       67         33    139     12      82       28     294           8         15       5      6       34             20     134     29      24      110      317             712
 12:15 PM       18     29     18      37      102         23    173     16      93       44     349          16         19      13     19       67             23     132     43       4      139      341             859
 12:30 PM       10     24      3      21       58         33    197     21     125       56     432           8         23       9      7       47             23     180     38       5      173      419             956
 12:45 PM       12     29     18      16       75         37    192     13     202       32     476          15         19      14      6       54             29     187     56      39      143      454            1059
     Total      49     97     53     103      302        126    701     62     502      160    1551          47         76      41     38      202             95     633    166      72      565     1531            3586

 01:00 PM        4     31     22      35       92         32    140      7     189       45     413           5         22      12     11       50             16     166     28      31      134      375             930
 01:15 PM       11     43     16      42      112         43    213     18     174       40     488           5         25       6      2       38             16     183     40      10      126      375            1013
 01:30 PM        0      0     16     105      121         39    202     15     196       52     504           8         24       8     12       52             20     171     46       6      124      367            1044
 01:45 PM        7     28     15     167      217         34    190     12     218       64     518          11         22      10     22       65             24     158     51       1      122      356            1156
     Total      22    102     69     349      542        148    745     52     777      201    1923          29         93      36     47      205             76     678    165      48      506     1473            4143

 02:00 PM        9     29     14      48      100         47    178     15 261           85     586          15          7       8     30       60             16     162     23       4      108      313            1059
 02:15 PM       13     16     13      71      113         28    193     16 299           54     590           6         22      14     13       55             22     151     41      41      108      363            1121
 02:30 PM        0      0     14     106      120         29    196     13 272           95     605          15         23      16     11       65             20     158     39      42      113      372            1162
 02:45 PM        9     19     15     140      183         30    200      9 245          136     620          23         24      17      9       73             18     165     37      42      117      379            1255
     Total      31     64     56     365      516        134    767     53 1077         370    2401          59         76      55     63      253             76     636    140     129      446     1427            4597

 Grand Total   102    263    178     817    1360         408 2213      167     2356     731    5875         135     245       132 148          660         247 1947          471     249      1517    4431 12326
 Apprch %      7.5    19.3   13.1    60.1                6.9 37.7      2.8     40.1     12.4                20.5    37.1        20 22.4                    5.6 43.9          10.6    5.6      34.2
  Total %      0.8    2.1 1.4        6.6      11         3.3   18      1.4     19.1     5.9     47.7        1.1       2        1.1 1.2         5.4           2 15.8          3.8       2      12.3    35.9
      cars      93    263 173        817    1346         407 2167      163     2356     731    5824         133     245       131 148          657         241 1925          471     249      1517    4403 12230
   % cars      91.2   100 97.2       100      99         99.8   97.9   97.6    100      100     99.1        98.5    100       99.2 100        99.5         97.6       98.9   100     100      100     99.4 99.2
       HV        9      0    5         0      14           1     46       4      0        0       51          2       0          1    0          3               6      22     0       0        0       28    96
    % HV       8.8      0 2.8          0       1         0.2    2.1     2.4      0        0      0.9        1.5       0        0.8    0        0.5             2.4     1.1     0       0        0      0.6   0.8




                          Ithan Avenue                    Lacaster Avenue                                                Ithan Avenue                                    Lacaster Avenue
                           Southbound                        Westbound                                                    Northbound                                        Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total                               Left       Thru Right          App. Total              Left Thru Right App. Total                    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 12:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
    12:00 PM          9      15      14        38      33    139      12   184                                     8          15        5             28              20     134         29          183                 433
    12:15 PM        18       29      18        65      23    173      16   212                                     16         19       13                 48          23     132         43          198                 523
    12:30 PM        10       24       3        37      33    197      21   251                                   8            23        9            40               23     180         38          241                 569
    12:45 PM        12       29      18        59      37    192      13   242                                  15             19      14            48               29     187         56          272                 621
 Total Volume       49       97      53       199    126     701      62   889                                  47             76       41          164            95         633      166           894              2146
 % App. Total     24.6     48.7    26.6             14.2    78.9       7                                      28.7           46.3       25                       10.6        70.8     18.6
          PHF     .681     .836    .736      .765   .851    .890    .738  .885                                .734           .826     .732         .854          .819        .846     .741           .822             .864
          cars      41       97      50       188    125     689      58   872                                  46             76       40          162            92         621      166            879             2101
        % cars    83.7      100    94.3      94.5   99.2    98.3    93.5  98.1                                97.9            100     97.6         98.8          96.8        98.1      100           98.3             97.9
           HV         8       0       3        11       1      12      4    17                                   1              0        1            2             3          12        0             15               45
         % HV     16.3        0     5.7       5.5     0.8     1.7    6.5   1.9                                 2.1              0      2.4          1.2           3.2         1.9        0            1.7              2.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     161
                                                                      F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                     105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                                    Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan and 30                                                                                                                                                            File Name             : 30IthanSAT
Homecoming                                                                                                                                                              Site Code             : 00111111
EB Peds = diag peds NE-SW                                                                                                                                               Start Date            : 10/27/2012
WB Peds = diag peds NW-SE                                                                                                                                               Page No               :1
                                                                              Groups Printed- HV
                      Ithan Avenue                              Lacaster Avenue                  Ithan Avenue                                                           Lacaster Avenue
                       Southbound                                 Westbound                       Northbound                                                              Eastbound
                                                                            NW-SE                                                                                                   NE-SW
 Start Time    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru    Right            Peds   App. Total   Left Thru       Right     Peds   App. Total   Left Thru            Right           Peds    App. Total     Int. Total
                                                                             Peds                                                                                                    Peds

 12:00 PM        0    0       0      0         0         0     2       0       0        0        2         0        0          0     0           0          1        2         0       0      0          3               5
 12:15 PM        7    0       0      0         7         0     3       0       0        0        3         1        0          1     0           2          1        2         0       0      0          3              15
 12:30 PM        1    0       0      0         1         1     5       4       0        0       10         0        0          0     0           0          0        2         0       0      0          2              13
 12:45 PM        0    0       3      0         3         0     2       0       0        0        2         0        0          0     0           0          1        6         0       0      0          7              12
     Total       8    0       3      0        11         1    12       4       0        0       17         1        0          1     0           2          3       12         0       0      0         15              45

 01:00 PM        0    0       0      0           0       0     4       0       0        0        4         0        0          0     0           0          0           3      0       0      0            3             7
 01:15 PM        0    0       0      0           0       0     3       0       0        0        3         0        0          0     0           0          1           1      0       0      0            2             5
 01:30 PM        0    0       0      0           0       0     4       0       0        0        4         0        0          0     0           0          0           1      0       0      0            1             5
 01:45 PM        1    0       0      0           1       0     5       0       0        0        5         1        0          0     0           1          0           0      0       0      0            0             7
     Total       1    0       0      0           1       0    16       0       0        0       16         1        0          0     0           1          1           5      0       0      0            6            24

 02:00 PM        0    0       1      0           1       0     2       0       0        0        2         0        0          0     0           0          1           5      0       0      0            6             9
 02:15 PM        0    0       1      0           1       0     7       0       0        0        7         0        0          0     0           0          0           0      0       0      0            0             8
 02:30 PM        0    0       0      0           0       0     5       0       0        0        5         0        0          0     0           0          0           0      0       0      0            0             5
 02:45 PM        0    0       0      0           0       0     4       0       0        0        4         0        0          0     0           0          1           0      0       0      0            1             5
     Total       0    0       2      0           2       0    18       0       0        0       18         0        0          0     0           0          2           5      0       0      0            7            27

 Grand Total     9    0       5      0        14         1    46       4       0        0       51         2        0          1     0           3          6       22         0       0      0         28              96
 Apprch %      64.3   0    35.7      0                   2   90.2    7.8       0        0                66.7       0    33.3        0                 21.4        78.6        0       0      0
  Total %      9.4    0     5.2      0     14.6          1   47.9    4.2       0        0    53.1        2.1        0          1     0       3.1           6.2     22.9        0       0      0      29.2




                          Ithan Avenue                    Lacaster Avenue                                           Ithan Avenue                                     Lacaster Avenue
                           Southbound                        Westbound                                               Northbound                                         Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total                            Left     Thru Right            App. Total             Left Thru Right App. Total                      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 12:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
    12:00 PM          0       0       0         0       0      2       0     2                                  0          0          0                0           1           2        0              3                   5
    12:15 PM          7       0       0         7       0      3       0     3                                  1          0          1                2            1          2        0              3                 15
    12:30 PM          1       0       0         1       1      5       4    10                                0            0          0                0            0          2        0              2                 13
    12:45 PM          0       0       3         3       0      2       0     2                                0            0          0                0            1          6        0              7                 12
 Total Volume         8       0       3        11       1     12       4    17                                1            0          1                2            3         12        0            15                  45
 % App. Total     72.7        0    27.3               5.9   70.6    23.5                                     50            0         50                            20         80        0
          PHF     .286     .000    .250      .393   .250    .600    .250  .425                             .250         .000       .250         .250             .750       .500     .000          .536               .750




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   162
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Sproul & Conestoga Roads                                                                                                                       File Name              : SprConSat
Homecoming                                                                                                                                     Site Code              : 00000000
                                                                                                                                               Start Date             : 10/27/2012
                                                                                                                                               Page No                :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Sproul Road                          Conestoga Road                     Sproul Road                                      Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                         Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                 App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total    Int. Total
  12:00 PM      15   37    18     0        70         8     85    13     0    106      23    33     6    1                     63        22   58    33     0              113           352
  12:15 PM      13   29    20     1        63         2     82    18     0    102      32    40    10    0                     82        31   82    34     0              147           394
  12:30 PM      11   23    15     0        49         0     81    12     0       93    32    31    12    0                     75        34   99    34     0              167           384
  12:45 PM      12   28    13     0        53         3    107    13     0    123      33    41     5    0                     79        21   81    41     0              143           398
      Total     51 117     66     1       235        13    355    56     0    424 120 145          33    1                    299       108 320 142        0              570          1528

  01:00 PM      11    27    15     3       56         3    100     8      0    111    27       31         8          0         66        17     74      41        1       133           366
  01:15 PM       8    29    19     1       57         6     86     2      0     94    33       29         7          0         69        25    102      33        0       160           380
  01:30 PM       8    30     6     0       44         7     88    11      0    106    26       27         9          0         62        14     94      41        1       150           362
  01:45 PM      10    27    10     0       47         3    101    14      0    118    38       35         2          0         75        15    101      46        0       162           402
      Total     37   113    50     4      204        19    375    35      0    429   124      122        26          0        272        71    371     161        2       605          1510

  02:00 PM      12    28    17     0       57         4     75    14      0     93    32       31         4          1         68        25     76      40        0       141           359
  02:15 PM       9    31    17     0       57         4     95     9      0    108    34       42        10          0         86        14     84      35        1       134           385
  02:30 PM      14    31    17     0       62         4     64    14      0     82    29       19         5          1         54        14     85      43        0       142           340
  02:45 PM       9    37    14     0       60         7     74    13      0     94    21       33         4          0         58        19    103      44        1       167           379
      Total     44   127    65     0      236        19    308    50      0    377   116      125        23          2        266        72    348     162        2       584          1463

 Grand Total132 357 181            5      675        51    1038 141       0   1230    360 392         82          3           837        251   1039 465         4       1759           4501
  Apprch % 19.6 52.9 26.8        0.7                4.1    84.4 11.5      0            43 46.8       9.8        0.4                     14.3   59.1 26.4      0.2
   Total %  2.9  7.9    4        0.1       15       1.1    23.1  3.1      0   27.3      8  8.7       1.8        0.1          18.6        5.6   23.1 10.3      0.1       39.1
       cars 125 349 179            5      658        51    1031 133       0   1215    358 386         82          3           829        241   1030 463         4       1738           4440
    % cars 94.7 97.8 98.9        100     97.5       100    99.3 94.3      0   98.8   99.4 98.5       100        100            99         96   99.1 99.6      100       98.8           98.6
        HV    7    8    2          0       17         0       7    8      0     15      2    6         0          0             8         10      9    2        0         21             61
     % HV   5.3  2.2  1.1          0      2.5         0     0.7  5.7      0    1.2    0.6  1.5         0          0             1          4    0.9  0.4        0        1.2            1.4




                          Sproul Road                     Conestoga Road                       Sproul Road                                   Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                        Westbound                          Northbound                                      Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left    Thru Right                App. Total      Left Thru Right App. Total                 Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 12:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
    12:00 PM         15      37      18        70       8      85   13    106           23          33          6               62        22      58         33         113              351
    12:15 PM         13      29      20        62       2      82   18    102           32          40         10               82        31      82         34         147              393
    12:30 PM         11      23      15        49       0      81   12      93          32          31         12              75         34      99         34         167              384
    12:45 PM         12      28      13        53       3    107    13    123           33          41           5             79         21      81         41         143              398
 Total Volume        51     117      66       234      13    355    56    424          120       145            33            298        108     320      142           570            1526
 % App. Total     21.8       50    28.2               3.1   83.7  13.2                40.3      48.7          11.1                      18.9    56.1     24.9
          PHF     .850     .791    .825      .836   .406    .829  .778   .862         .909      .884          .688           .909       .794    .808     .866          .853            .959
          cars       49     115      65       229      13    353    52    418          119       142            33            294        104     317      141           562            1503
        % cars    96.1     98.3    98.5      97.9    100    99.4  92.9   98.6         99.2      97.9           100           98.7       96.3    99.1     99.3          98.6            98.5
           HV         2       2       1         5       0       2    4       6           1         3             0              4          4       3        1             8              23
         % HV       3.9     1.7     1.5       2.1       0     0.6  7.1     1.4         0.8       2.1             0            1.3        3.7     0.9      0.7           1.4             1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                      163
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Sproul & Conestoga Roads                                                                                                                      File Name               : SprConSat
Homecoming                                                                                                                                    Site Code               : 00000000
                                                                                                                                              Start Date              : 10/27/2012
                                                                                                                                              Page No                 :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Sproul Road                          Conestoga Road                    Sproul Road                                      Conestoga Road
                      Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds            App. Total    Int. Total
  12:00 PM       0     1    1     0           2       0       1    2     0        3     0     0    0     0                       0       1     0    1     0                     2          7
  12:15 PM       0     1    0     0           1       0       0    2     0        2     1     2    0     0                       3       0     3    0     0                     3          9
  12:30 PM       2     0    0     0           2       0       0    0     0        0     0     1    0     0                       1       3     0    0     0                     3          6
  12:45 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0     0                       0       0     0    0     0                     0          1
      Total      2     2    1     0           5       0       2    4     0        6     1     3    0     0                       4       4     3    1     0                     8         23

  01:00 PM       0     1     0     0          1       0      0     1      0      1     0        1        0          0            1       0      1        0        0             1          4
  01:15 PM       0     1     0     0          1       0      0     0      0      0     0        1        0          0            1       3      1        0        0             4          6
  01:30 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      1     0      0      1     0        0        0          0            0       1      0        0        0             1          2
  01:45 PM       1     2     0     0          3       0      1     1      0      2     1        1        0          0            2       0      0        0        0             0          7
      Total      1     4     0     0          5       0      2     2      0      4     1        3        0          0            4       4      2        0        0             6         19

  02:00 PM       1     0     0     0          1       0      0     0      0      0     0        0        0          0            0       1      0        1        0             2          3
  02:15 PM       0     2     0     0          2       0      1     1      0      2     0        0        0          0            0       0      2        0        0             2          6
  02:30 PM       1     0     1     0          2       0      2     1      0      3     0        0        0          0            0       1      2        0        0             3          8
  02:45 PM       2     0     0     0          2       0      0     0      0      0     0        0        0          0            0       0      0        0        0             0          2
      Total      4     2     1     0          7       0      3     2      0      5     0        0        0          0            0       2      4        1        0             7         19

 Grand Total      7    8    2      0        17        0    7    8         0     15     2         6       0          0            8 10    9                2       0         21            61
  Apprch %     41.2 47.1 11.8      0                  0 46.7 53.3         0           25        75       0          0            47.6 42.9              9.5       0
   Total %     11.5 13.1  3.3      0     27.9         0 11.5 13.1         0   24.6   3.3       9.8       0          0       13.1 16.4 14.8              3.3       0      34.4




                          Sproul Road                    Conestoga Road                         Sproul Road                                Conestoga Road
                          Southbound                       Westbound                            Northbound                                   Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left      Thru Right              App. Total     Left Thru Right App. Total                   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 12:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
    12:00 PM          0       1       1         2      0      1     2        3             0         0          0                0       1          0         1             2                7
    12:15 PM          0       1       0         1      0      0     2        2             1         2          0                3       0          3        0              3                9
    12:30 PM          2       0       0         2      0      0     0        0           0         1            0                1       3        0          0              3               6
    12:45 PM          0       0       0         0      0      1     0        1           0         0            0                0        0       0          0              0               1
 Total Volume         2       2       1         5      0      2     4        6           1         3            0                4        4       3          1              8              23
 % App. Total       40       40      20                0   33.3  66.7                   25        75            0                        50    37.5       12.5
          PHF     .250     .500    .250      .625   .000   .500  .500    .500         .250      .375         .000           .333       .333    .250       .250         .667             .639




                                                                                                                                                                                      164
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Spring Mill & Conestoga Roads                                                                                       File Name     : ConSpMSat
Homecoming                                                                                                          Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date    : 10/27/2012
                                                                                                                    Page No       :1
                                                                Groups Printed- cars - HV
                              Spring Mill Road                        Conestoga Road                           Conestoga Road
                                Southbound                               Westbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time      Left    Right     Peds App. Total        Thru    Right    Peds App. Total       Left     Thru    Peds App. Total   Int. Total
        12:00 PM         1         1        0         2          105        1        0      106          3        85       0        88          196
        12:15 PM         1         3        0         4          100        3        0      103          0       110       0       110          217
        12:30 PM         4         2        0         6           88        1        0       89          3       113       0       116          211
        12:45 PM         5         5        0        10          120        0        0      120          0        94       0        94          224
             Total      11        11        0        22          413        5        0      418          6       402       0       408          848

        01:00 PM          1        9         0          10       104            0           0   104      1        86        0        87        201
        01:15 PM          1        5         0           6        91            1           0    92      1       112        0       113        211
        01:30 PM          0        3         0           3       103            1           0   104      3       109        0       112        219
        01:45 PM          0        6         0           6       105            0           0   105      1       107        0       108        219
            Total         2       23         0          25       403            2           0   405      6       414        0       420        850

        02:00 PM          1         2        0           3        97            0           0    97      5        89        0        94        194
        02:15 PM          2         0        0           2       102            0           0   102      3       104        0       107        211
        02:30 PM          1         0        0           1        78            1           0    79      3       103        0       106        186
        02:45 PM          0         5        0           5        90            0           0    90      2       115        0       117        212
            Total         4         7        0          11       367            1           0   368     13       411        0       424        803

      Grand Total        17      41          0          58      1183             8          0   1191    25      1227        0     1252        2501
       Apprch %        29.3     70.7         0                  99.3           0.7          0            2        98        0
         Total %        0.7      1.6         0         2.3      47.3           0.3          0   47.6     1      49.1        0     50.1
            cars         17      41          0          58      1180             8          0   1188    25      1224        0     1249        2495
          % cars       100      100          0         100      99.7           100          0   99.7   100      99.8        0     99.8        99.8
             HV           0        0         0           0         3             0          0      3     0         3        0        3           6
           % HV           0        0         0           0       0.3             0          0    0.3     0       0.2        0      0.2         0.2




                                   Spring Mill Road                     Conestoga Road                      Conestoga Road
                                     Southbound                           Westbound                           Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Right    App. Total       Thru     Right   App. Total          Left     Thru   App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 12:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
             12:00 PM             1           1             2           105             1       106        3           85         88           196
             12:15 PM             1           3             4           100             3       103        0         110         110           217
             12:30 PM             4           2             6             88            1        89        3         113         116           211
             12:45 PM             5           5            10           120             0       120        0           94         94           224
        Total Volume             11          11            22           413             5       418        6         402         408           848
         % App. Total            50          50                        98.8           1.2                1.5        98.5
                  PHF          .550        .550          .550          .860          .417       .871    .500        .889         .879          .946
                   cars          11          11            22           411             5        416       6         399          405           843
                % cars          100         100           100          99.5           100       99.5     100        99.3         99.3          99.4
                    HV            0           0             0              2            0          2       0            3           3             5
                 % HV             0           0             0            0.5            0        0.5       0          0.7         0.7           0.6




                                                                                                                                             165
                                                        F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                 105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19147


Spring Mill & Conestoga Roads                                                                                   File Name     : ConSpMSat
Homecoming                                                                                                      Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date    : 10/27/2012
                                                                                                                Page No       :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- HV
                              Spring Mill Road                       Conestoga Road                        Conestoga Road
                                Southbound                              Westbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time      Left    Right     Peds App. Total        Thru   Right    Peds App. Total    Left     Thru    Peds App. Total      Int. Total
        12:00 PM         0         0        0         0            1      0        0         1       0         0       0         0               1
        12:15 PM         0         0        0         0            1      0        0         1       0         2       0         2               3
        12:30 PM         0         0        0         0            0      0        0         0       0         1       0         1               1
        12:45 PM         0         0        0         0            0      0        0         0       0         0       0         0               0
             Total       0         0        0         0            2      0        0         2       0         3       0         3               5

        01:00 PM          0         0        0           0        1          0          0      1     0         0       0            0             1
        01:15 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0      0     0         0       0            0             0
        01:30 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0      0     0         0       0            0             0
        01:45 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0      0     0         0       0            0             0
            Total         0         0        0           0        1          0          0      1     0         0       0            0             1

        02:00 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0      0     0         0       0            0             0
        02:15 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0      0     0         0       0            0             0
        02:30 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0      0     0         0       0            0             0
        02:45 PM          0         0        0           0        0          0          0      0     0         0       0            0             0
            Total         0         0        0           0        0          0          0      0     0         0       0            0             0

      Grand Total         0         0        0           0        3          0          0      3     0         3       0            3             6
       Apprch %           0         0        0                  100          0          0            0       100       0
         Total %          0         0        0           0       50          0          0    50      0        50       0            50




                                   Spring Mill Road                    Conestoga Road                   Conestoga Road
                                     Southbound                          Westbound                        Eastbound
            Start Time          Left      Right    App. Total      Thru     Right   App. Total       Left     Thru   App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 12:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
             12:00 PM             0           0             0            1          0         1        0           0           0                  1
             12:15 PM             0           0             0            1          0         1        0           2           2                  3
             12:30 PM             0           0             0            0          0         0        0           1           1                  1
             12:45 PM             0           0             0            0          0         0        0           0           0                  0
        Total Volume              0           0             0            2          0         2        0           3           3                  5
         % App. Total             0           0                        100          0                  0         100
                  PHF          .000        .000          .000         .500       .000       .500    .000        .375         .375             .417




                                                                                                                                            166
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan & Conestoga Roads                                                                                                                     File Name            : ConIthSat
Homecoming                                                                                                                                  Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                                            Start Date           : 10/27/2012
                                                                                                                                            Page No              :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- cars - HV
                      Ithan Avenue                         Conestoga Road                    Ithan Avenue                                   Conestoga Road
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds              App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  12:00 PM       7     5   25     0         37        3     72    12     1       88     0     4     3    0                    7        7   66     0     0             73           205
  12:15 PM       3     2   13     0         18        1     71     8     1       81     2    11     1    0                   14       18   77     0     2             97           210
  12:30 PM      11     1    4     0         16        3     78     7     2       90     1     5     0    0                    6       17   87     0     0            104           216
  12:45 PM       1     2   10     1         14       10     80     9     2    101       0     6     1    0                    7       12   74     0     1             87           209
      Total     22   10    52     1         85       17    301    36     6    360       3    26     5    0                   34       54 304      0     3            361           840

  01:00 PM       4     3    13     0        20        1     87     7      0     95     0        5        0          0         5       10     73      0       0        83           203
  01:15 PM       5     5    14     0        24        1     60     5      0     66     2        4        0          0         6       19     91      0       2       112           208
  01:30 PM       6     4    14     1        25        0     81     8      1     90     1        4        1          0         6       17     85      0       0       102           223
  01:45 PM       4     4    15     0        23        1     82     8      1     92     0        2        1          0         3       17     79      2       0        98           216
      Total     19    16    56     1        92        3    310    28      2    343     3       15        2          0        20       63    328      2       2       395           850

  02:00 PM       5     5     9     0        19        2     77     5      0     84     0        5        2          1         8       10     74      0       2        86           197
  02:15 PM       8     3    13     0        24        3     81     3      0     87     1        2        0          0         3       24     66      0       0        90           204
  02:30 PM       1     4    10     0        15        0     60    10      1     71     1        7        1          0         9        8     88      0       0        96           191
  02:45 PM       7     1    20     0        28        0     62     7      1     70     2        3        0          1         6        9     80      1       0        90           194
      Total     21    13    52     0        86        5    280    25      2    312     4       17        3          2        26       51    308      1       2       362           786

 Grand Total 62   39 160           2      263        25 891   89         10   1015     10   58   10              2           80       168 940         3     7      1118           2476
  Apprch % 23.6 14.8 60.8        0.8                2.5 87.8  8.8         1          12.5 72.5 12.5            2.5                     15 84.1      0.3   0.6
   Total %  2.5  1.6  6.5        0.1     10.6         1   36  3.6       0.4     41    0.4  2.3  0.4            0.1         3.2        6.8   38      0.1   0.3      45.2
       cars  62   37 154           2      255        24 884   83         10   1001     10   58   10              2          80        164 928         3     7      1102           2438
    % cars 100 94.9 96.2         100       97        96 99.2 93.3       100   98.6    100 100 100              100         100       97.6 98.7      100   100      98.6           98.5
        HV    0    2    6          0        8         1    7    6         0     14      0    0    0              0           0          4   12        0     0        16             38
     % HV     0  5.1  3.8          0        3         4  0.8  6.7         0    1.4      0    0    0              0           0        2.4  1.3        0     0       1.4            1.5




                          Ithan Avenue                    Conestoga Road                       Ithan Avenue                               Conestoga Road
                           Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                                  Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left     Thru Right App. Total                 Left Thru Right App. Total               Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 12:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
    12:00 PM          7       5      25        37       3      72   12      87             0        4          3               7        7     66         0           73             204
    12:15 PM          3       2      13        18       1      71    8      80             2        11          1            14        18     77         0           95             207
    12:30 PM        11        1       4        16       3      78    7      88           1         5            0             6        17     87         0         104              214
    12:45 PM          1       2      10        13      10      80    9      99           0         6            1             7        12      74        0          86              205
 Total Volume       22       10      52        84      17    301    36    354            3        26            5            34        54     304        0         358              830
 % App. Total     26.2     11.9    61.9               4.8      85 10.2                 8.8      76.5         14.7                    15.1    84.9        0
          PHF     .500     .500    .520      .568   .425    .941  .750   .894         .375      .591         .417         .607       .750    .874     .000        .861             .970
          cars      22        8      51        81      16    299    35    350            3        26            5           34         52     300        0         352              817
        % cars     100     80.0    98.1      96.4   94.1    99.3  97.2   98.9          100       100          100          100       96.3    98.7        0        98.3             98.4
           HV         0       2       1         3       1       2    1       4           0         0            0            0          2       4        0           6               13
         % HV         0    20.0     1.9       3.6     5.9     0.7  2.8     1.1           0         0            0            0        3.7     1.3        0         1.7              1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                 167
                                                              F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                                        105 Kenilworth Street
                                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19147


Ithan & Conestoga Roads                                                                                                                File Name            : ConIthSat
Homecoming                                                                                                                             Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                                       Start Date           : 10/27/2012
                                                                                                                                       Page No              :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- HV
                      Ithan Avenue                         Conestoga Road                    Ithan Avenue                              Conestoga Road
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Int. Total
  12:00 PM       0     1    1     0           2       0       0    1     0        1     0     0     0    0                0       0     0    0     0                  0          3
  12:15 PM       0     0    0     0           0       0       2    0     0        2     0     0     0    0                0       1     1    0     0                  2          4
  12:30 PM       0     0    0     0           0       1       0    0     0        1     0     0     0    0                0       1     1    0     0                  2          3
  12:45 PM       0     1    0     0           1       0       0    0     0        0     0     0     0    0                0       0     2    0     0                  2          3
      Total      0     2    1     0           3       1       2    1     0        4     0     0     0    0                0       2     4    0     0                  6         13

  01:00 PM       0     0     1     0          1       0      1     0      0      1     0     0      0          0          0       0      0       0      0             0          2
  01:15 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      2       0      0             2          2
  01:30 PM       0     0     1     0          1       0      0     1      0      1     0     0      0          0          0       0      0       0      0             0          2
  01:45 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      1     2      0      3     0     0      0          0          0       0      1       0      0             1          4
      Total      0     0     2     0          2       0      2     3      0      5     0     0      0          0          0       0      3       0      0             3         10

  02:00 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       0      1       0      0             1          1
  02:15 PM       0     0     1     0          1       0      2     0      0      2     0     0      0          0          0       0      1       0      0             1          4
  02:30 PM       0     0     2     0          2       0      1     2      0      3     0     0      0          0          0       1      2       0      0             3          8
  02:45 PM       0     0     0     0          0       0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0          0          0       1      1       0      0             2          2
      Total      0     0     3     0          3       0      3     2      0      5     0     0      0          0          0       2      5       0      0             7         15

 Grand Total     0     2    6      0          8       1    7    6         0     14     0     0      0          0          0    4   12            0      0         16            38
  Apprch %       0    25   75      0                7.1   50 42.9         0            0     0      0          0              25   75            0      0
   Total %       0   5.3 15.8      0     21.1       2.6 18.4 15.8         0   36.8     0     0      0          0          0 10.5 31.6            0      0      42.1




                          Ithan Avenue                   Conestoga Road                      Ithan Avenue                           Conestoga Road
                           Southbound                      Westbound                          Northbound                              Eastbound
   Start Time      Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total       Left    Thru Right App. Total             Left Thru Right App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 12:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
    12:00 PM          0       1       1         2      0      0     1        1           0      0          0              0       0          0      0             0                3
    12:15 PM          0       0       0         0      0      2     0        2           0      0          0              0       1          1      0             2                4
    12:30 PM          0       0       0         0      1      0     0        1           0      0          0              0        1         1      0             2               3
    12:45 PM          0       1       0         1      0      0     0        0           0      0          0              0        0         2      0             2               3
 Total Volume         0       2       1         3      1      2     1        4           0      0          0              0        2       4        0             6              13
 % App. Total         0    66.7    33.3               25     50    25                    0      0          0                    33.3    66.7        0
          PHF     .000     .500    .250      .375   .250   .250  .250    .500         .000   .000       .000         .000       .500    .500     .000        .750             .813




                                                                                                                                                                            168
                                                     F. Tavani and Associates, Inc.
                                                             105 Kenilworth Street
                                                             Philadelphia, PA 19147


pass given includes those given                                                                         File Name      : West Lot_MID
access but no phyiscal paper pass                                                                       Site Code      : 00000003
                                                                                                        Start Date     : 4/30/2013
                                                                                                        Page No        :1

        Groups Printed- WR hang tag - VU hang tag - Main hang tag - St Mary/Dundale/Gary hang - pass given - no hang - FH hang tag

                                                                         Southbound
                                 Start Time                    ins               outs                 App. Total                     Int. Total
                                  10:00 AM                      10                  4                        14                             14
                                  10:15 AM                       8                  9                        17                             17
                                  10:30 AM                       7                  7                        14                             14
                                  10:45 AM                       5                  6                        11                             11
                                       Total                    30                26                         56                             56

                                  11:00 AM                     13                      6                      19                            19
                                  11:15 AM                     14                     10                      24                            24
                                  11:30 AM                      8                      7                      15                            15
                                  11:45 AM                      8                      9                      17                            17
                                      Total                    43                     32                      75                            75

                               Grand Total                     73                   58                      131                           131
                                  Apprch %                   55.7                 44.3
                                   Total %                   55.7                 44.3                      100
                              WR hang tag                      50                   41                       91                             91
                            % WR hang tag                    68.5                 70.7                     69.5                           69.5
                               VU hang tag                      1                    4                        5                              5
                            % VU hang tag                     1.4                  6.9                      3.8                            3.8
                             Main hang tag                      5                    0                        5                              5
                           % Main hang tag                    6.8                    0                      3.8                            3.8
                 St Mary/Dundale/Gary hang                      5                    0                        5                              5
               % St Mary/Dundale/Gary hang                    6.8                    0                      3.8                            3.8
                                 pass given                    12                    0                       12                             12
                              % pass given                   16.4                    0                      9.2                            9.2
                                   no hang                      0                   12                       12                             12
                                 % no hang                      0                 20.7                      9.2                            9.2
                               FH hang tag                      0                    1                        1                              1
                            % FH hang tag                       0                  1.7                      0.8                            0.8




                                                                         Southbound
                                     Start Time                ins               outs                 App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 10:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 11:00 AM
                                      11:00 AM                  13                    6                       19                            19
                                      11:15 AM                  14                  10                        24                            24
                                      11:30 AM                   8                   7                        15                            15
                                      11:45 AM                   8                   9                        17                            17
                                   Total Volume                 43                  32                        75                            75
                                   % App. Total               57.3                42.7
                                            PHF               .768                .800                      .781                          .781
                                   WR hang tag                  30                  23                        53                            53
                                % WR hang tag                 69.8                71.9                      70.7                          70.7
                                    VU hang tag                  1                   2                          3                            3
                                 % VU hang tag                 2.3                 6.3                        4.0                          4.0
                                  Main hang tag                  2                   0                          2                            2
                               % Main hang tag                 4.7                   0                        2.7                          2.7
                    St Mary/Dundale/Gary hang                    2                   0                          2                            2
                 % St Mary/Dundale/Gary hang                   4.7                   0                        2.7                          2.7
                                     pass given                  8                   0                          8                            8
                                   % pass given               18.6                   0                      10.7                          10.7
                                        no hang                  0                   6                          6                            6
                                     % no hang                   0                18.8                        8.0                          8.0
                                    FH hang tag                  0                   1                          1                            1
                                 % FH hang tag                   0                 3.1                        1.3                          1.3


                                                                                                                                      452
