Dewey Avenue Corridor Traffic Calming Study
                      September 2010


                    Prepared for:
         Town of Greece and City of Rochester
              Monroe County, New York


                   Prepared by:
          Environmental Design and Research,
               Landscape Architecture, Planning,
      Environmental Services, Engineering and Surveying, P.C.

                              and
                        SRF Associates
            Traffic Engineering & Planning Consultants
          TABLE OF CONTENTS




EXECUTIVE SUMMARY              page 4
                                         1
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS               page 10
                                         2
INTRODUCTION                   page 11
                                         3
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS         page 18
                                         4
TRAFFIC CALMING ALTERNATIVES   page 51
                                         5
RECOMMENDATIONS                page 54
                                         6
IMPLEMENTATION                 page 78
                                         7
SOURCES                        page 84
                                         8



                    Page 1
                    Page 1
                           APPENDICES




PUBLIC INPUT SUMMARY
                                                                       A
A L T E R N A T I V E T R A N S P O R T A T I O N B E N E FI T S
                                                                       B
COMPLETE STREETS
                                                                       C
EXISTING CONDITIONS PHOTOS
                                                                       D
COLLECTED TRAFFIC DATA                      (Available Upon Request)
                                                                       E




                                   Page 2
                          LIST OF FIGURES

Data Collection Points                               1
Pavement Width                                       2
Character Zones (11x17)                              3
Destinations and Linkages                            4
Bus Stop Locations                                   5
Average Daily Traffic Volume                         6
Existing Traffic Volumes (11x17)                     7
Future Traffic Volumes (11x17)                       8
Accident Locations                                    9
Pedestrian Level of Service                          10
Pedestrian Crosswalk Locations                       11
Walk Score                                           12
Walk Score ­ Pedestrian LOS Comparison               13
Walking Potential Vs. Deficiency                     14
Proposed Road Diets and Bicycle Boulevards (11x17)   15
Proposed Crosswalk Upgrades (11x17)                  16
Depaving Opportunities (11x17)                       17
Pedestrian and Bicycle-Oriented Parking Lots         18




                                      Page 3
                                                                                         1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


This report summarizes the analysis and preliminary design studies of the Dewey Avenue Corridor
Traffic Calming Study. The Genesee Transportation Council (GTC) funded the preparation of the
report under its Unified Planning Work Program (UPWP). The Town of Greece and the City of
Rochester contracted with EDR and SRF Associates to conduct site analysis, assess feasibility, and
produce concept-level planning and design for a traffic calming strategy along Dewey Avenue in the
Town of Greece and the City of Rochester in Monroe County, New York. Guidelines for the design
and implementation of the traffic calming improvements were prepared.

Background
The Town of Greece and the City of Rochester are located in north-central Monroe County. Dewey
Avenue is an urban minor arterial that begins at Lyell Avenue in the City of Rochester and extends 8
miles to the Town of Greece's northern border near Lake Ontario. The study area consists of
portions of Dewey Avenue located in the Town of Greece and the City of Rochester, and covers
approximately 3.75 miles from the intersection with Ridge Road West to the intersection with Latta
Road. In the Town of Greece, Dewey Avenue is a Monroe County highway and in the City of
Rochester, the road is a city street.

In 2001, the Town of Greece completed an update of their Community Master Plan. In order to
implement the recommendations contained in this update, the Greece Town Board adopted a new
Zoning Ordinance and Official Zoning Map in 2003. However, no major changes were made in the
Dewey Avenue area because the Master Plan Update recognized Dewey Avenue as an area with
special characteristics that was in need of further study, and the Town Board did not want to delay
the overall, town-wide zoning effort.

The Town of Greece initiated the Dewey Avenue Corridor Study in 2006 to ensure that any future
development in the corridor strengthened community character. The Corridor Study, completed by
EDR in 2007, was a planning effort designed to create a more comprehensive work plan for
preserving and revitalizing this area. In 2008, the Town of Greece had started to implement some of
the study's recommendations, and determined that the next step was a feasibility study of traffic
calming methods to determine how best to improve the pedestrian experience and lessen reliance
on vehicular travel.

In pursuit of this goal, the Town of Greece, in cooperation with Monroe County DOT, pursued
funding to undertake a comprehensive feasibility study for the corridor. The City of Rochester
suggested that the study area be expanded to include a portion of Dewey Avenue in the City of
Rochester. The joint study was approved by the GTC for funding in 2008. The purpose of the traffic
calming study was to evaluate the options for reducing the adverse impacts of vehicular traffic on
pedestrian circulation within the sections of the Dewey Avenue Corridor included in the study area.

Vehicular Facility Analysis
The vehicular facilities in the Dewey Avenue Corridor were assessed to determine what traffic
calming strategies would be most appropriate. The standard procedure for capacity analysis of
signalized and unsignalized intersections is outlined in the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM
2000). Traffic analysis software, SYNCHRO 7.0 (Build 761), which is based on procedures and
methodologies contained in the HCM 2000, was used to analyze operating conditions at study area
intersections. The procedure yields a LOS based on the HCM 2000 as an indicator of how well
intersections operate. Existing operating conditions were documented in the field and modeled using
traffic analysis software. The traffic analysis models were calibrated based on actual field
observations, and included the 2009 lane changes near Latta Road.

                                             Page 4
                                                                                             1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


The Intersection Capacity Utilization (ICU) can be thought of as an intersection wide volume-to-
capacity ratio. ICU is well suited to the purpose of transportation planning studies. The intended
applications for ICU are traffic impact studies, future roadway conceptual design, and congestion
management programs. The primary output from ICU is analogous to the intersection volume-to-
capacity ratio. The ICU does not provide a complete picture of intersection performance, but it does
provide a clear view of the intersection's volume related to its capacity.

The capacity analysis data collected was used to assess the quality of vehicular traffic flow for the
existing AM and PM commuter peak hour conditions at the signalized intersections in the study area.
Analyses of the existing intersections indicate that all of the intersections studied are currently
operating at level of service "C" or better on all approaches during the peak periods, with a few
exceptions that currently operate at LOS "D".

The ICU capacity analysis results indicate that all of the study intersections are currently operating at
less than 65% of their capacity during both peak hours, except the Denise and Stone Road
intersections during the PM peak hour and the West Ridge Road intersection during both peak
hours, which are operating at approximately 75% of their capacity. These percentages indicate that
there is excess capacity available at these intersections and throughout portions of the corridor. This
suggests that opportunities may exist in many areas for pedestrian and bicycle enhancements
without significantly compromising vehicular capacities.

In addition, historical traffic volume growth in the study area and planned developments in the
corridor were reviewed and evaluated to determine a growth rate to account for normal increases in
area-wide traffic growth. A twenty-year traffic forecast was derived and used for future traffic
analyses. Analyses of the study intersections indicate that all of the intersections studied are
operating at level of service "C" or better on all approaches during the peak periods under 2029
future no-build conditions with a few exceptions that are projected to operate at LOS "D".

The ICU results indicate that virtually all of the study intersections are projected to operate at less
than 65% of their capacity during the AM peak hour under future no-build conditions. During the PM
peak hour, several intersections are projected to operate at 70% or greater. Based upon the
operational analyses and local development patterns, an intersection with an ICU greater than 70%
may not be capable of accommodating major traffic calming improvements. An intersection with an
ICU below 70% has excess vehicular capacity available, suggesting that opportunities may exist for
pedestrian and bicycle enhancements without significantly compromising vehicular capacity.

According to Intersection Capacity Utilization Evaluation Procedures for Intersections and
Interchanges 2003 Edition published by Trafficware, an intersection with an ICU between 64% and
73% is characterized as "having no major congestion. The majority of traffic should be served on the
first cycle." In reviewing the ICU results at intersections throughout the Dewey Avenue corridor, 70%
is used to differentiate between intersections that are potential candidates for a road diet. However,
it is noted that detailed capacity analyses are required to determine the appropriate geometry at
each intersection.

Bicycle and Pedestrian Facility Analysis
Bicycle infrastructure and facilities were also inventoried in the corridor. Bicycle safety was judged
on the presence or absence of a dedicated bicycle facility, shared lane widths including the on-street
parking lane, and the amount of space a cyclist needs to safely maneuver. Other considerations that
affect bicycle safety are speed limit, average annual daily traffic (AADT) volumes, percent heavy

                                                Page 5
                                                                                               1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


traffic, number of driveways, and any obstructions to the public realm, including overgrown
landscaping and road grates.

The Dewey Avenue Corridor lacks dedicated bicycle facilities of any form. There are no road
shoulders, and the widest outside lane is twelve feet wide, less than the fourteen-foot minimum
recommended in the AASHTO Guide for the Development of Bicycle Facilities that is necessary to
accommodate a bicycle traveling beside an automobile. Bicycle users must choose between
(illegally) using the sidewalk, traveling a parallel street, or sharing the narrow outside lane of the road
with automobiles traveling at higher speeds. There is an opportunity to improve the conditions that
contribute to the safety and comfort experienced by bicyclists using the corridor.

Pedestrian safety was evaluated based on factors such as sidewalk width and quality, and the
presence of a buffer zone (tree lawn). Pedestrian safety factors present in the travelway include
crosswalk length and quality, presence or absence of medians, and the type of median. A
pedestrian LOS was developed for the pedestrian realm on both sides of the roadway along the
entire length of the corridor. Every zone of the Dewey Avenue pedestrian realm was scored based
on a number of pedestrian realm variables. The quality of the pedestrian realm in the corridor ranges
between a `B' and a `D', with most segments of the corridor performing at a LOS of `C'. Generally,
the LOS for corridor segments on the east side of Dewey Avenue was slightly better than those on
the west side. Variables that negatively affected the LOS were: lack of sufficient buffer width,
inadequate crossing opportunities, lack of support facilities, and poor sidewalk quality.

An inventory of all marked crosswalks that traverse Dewey Avenue at signalized intersections was
performed for this study. Information was collected on the width, length, and presence of curb ramps
and pedestrian signals at each signalized crosswalk location. This data was then analyzed to
develop a LOS for each crosswalk that traverses Dewey Avenue at a signalized intersection. The
results of this analysis indicate that there are no immediate safety concerns at crosswalk locations
within the study area. On a grading scale of LOS `A' through LOS `F', the crosswalks on Dewey
Avenue were rated with LOS `B' or LOS `C', meaning they provide an acceptable way for crossing
the street in a reasonably safe and comfortable fashion. Although the results of the crosswalk
assessment indicate that there are no apparent safety concerns, there are opportunities for crossing
enhancements.

In general, there are pedestrian facilities currently in place along the Dewey Avenue Corridor,
including sidewalks, marked crosswalks, and pedestrian signals. The LOS scores for most of the
segments of the Dewey Avenue Corridor indicate that there is an opportunity to improve the
conditions that contribute to the sense of safety and comfort experienced by pedestrians. Pedestrian
LOS and Walk Score were analyzed side by side, which indicated segments of the pedestrian realm
are deficient in quality, yet have a large number of pedestrian generators in close proximity. This
important analysis provides a list of locations to be used to develop priorities for future pedestrian
realm improvements.

Traffic Calming Alternatives and Recommendations
A number of traffic calming alternatives and their potential impacts were considered for the corridor.
Multiple design, program and policy solutions can be used to solve each traffic calming issue. For
each alternative, reviewing the design details, impacts, and viability for the Dewey Avenue Corridor
was critical to selecting appropriate solution. Multi-modal transportation is very important, and the
recommendations attempt to balance vehicular capacity with bicycle and pedestrian access in order
to maximize corridor safety for all users.

                                                 Page 6
                                                                                            1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


The alternatives were categorized as on-street, off-street, or program and policy alternatives. On-
street alternatives include all possible strategies within the roadway, such as bicycle lanes or a road
diet. Off-street alternatives generally deal with the area from the curb to the front of a building with
the main focus on the pedestrian experience. Program and policy alternatives provide strategies for
zoning changes, educational programs, enforcement, maintenance, program effectiveness, and
security. A brief summary of design details and benefits for each alternative is provided in the report.
In addition, each alternative was evaluated in relationship to impacts on budget, various user groups,
and sustainability to ensure a process that assessed the tradeoffs between each alternative.

From the list of all the possible alternatives, a set of strategies was recommended for the corridor.
Committee and public comments, cost, user and sustainability impacts, and appropriateness for the
Dewey Avenue Corridor informed the selection of recommendations. The issues addressed by the
recommendations include:
    · No bicycle facilities, outside lane too narrow and no shoulders
    · Pedestrian Level of Service (LOS) C or D
       - Lack of sufficient buffer                             - Inadequate crossing opportunities
       - Poor sidewalk quality                                 - Existing crossing needs enhancement
       - High number of access drives introduce                - Lack of resting areas
         conflict and a lack of continuity for pedestrians     - No sidewalk
    · Lack of pedestrian-oriented, human scale environments in an area with high potential for
       walking
    · Lack of bus stop comfort and safety amenities
       - Unsafe crossings
       - Lack of seating
       - No ADA access
    · Resident/Pedestrian perception of high vehicle speed
    · Concentration of bicyclist collisions with vehicles
    · Concentration of pedestrian collisions with vehicles

The report provides a detailed description and illustrations for each strategy that is recommended.
The following solutions are recommended for the Dewey Avenue Corridor:

 On-street                      Off-Street
                                                               Programs & Policies
 Recommendations                Recommendations
 - Bicycle boulevards           - ADA-accessible bus stops     - Access management overlay district
 - Bicycle boxes                - Bicycle lockers              - Bike/ped supportive code language
 - Bicycle lanes/space          - Bicycle racks                - Education programs
 - Curb extensions              - Sidewalk improvements        - Maintenance programs
 - High visibility crosswalks   - Buffer areas                 - Other pedestrians
 - Refuge islands               - Building changes             - Program effectiveness measures
 - Road diet                    - Pedestrian-scale lighting    - Residential speed watch program
 - Signage and signalization    - Shared-access driveways      - Security enhancements
   changes                      - Sidewalk amenity zone
                                - Coordinate with EBP
                                - Ped/bike-oriented parking




                                               Page 7
                                                                                         1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


Phasing and Implementation
The implementation of the recommended traffic calming strategies should be phased based on
priority areas. The priority areas to be targeted are those with a high walk score and a low
pedestrian LOS. In addition, those areas with a high incidence of pedestrian- and bicyclist-injury
crashes should also be a priority in implementation.

High Priority Areas
   · Ridge to Eastman (east side)
   · Eastman to Velox (east side)
   · Barnard to Shady Way (east side)
   · Latta to Rumson (west side)
   · Rumson to McGuire (west side)
   · Velox to Ridge (west side)

The following locations have lower walk scores but also have low pedestrian LOS and should be
considered next in terms of priority:
   · Winchester to Bennington (east side)
   · McGuire to Brookridge (west side) ­ this stretch spans several blocks
   · Briarcliff to Maiden (west side)
   · Beaumont to Dalston (west side)

The phasing of some of the physical improvements is contingent on the implementation of the Road
Diet. That is, changes within the travel lanes, such as a bicycle lane, cannot happen until the Road
Diet is approved and implemented. In addition, some of the recommendations will be most effective
in conjunction with educational programs (e.g. bicycle boulevards). The following lists identify the
priorities and phasing of the recommended improvements. Table 10 is an implementation matrix
that identifies the precise locations of each recommended corridor improvement.

On-Street Recommendations
   High Priority, Short-Term
   · Road Diet with bicycle lanes/shoulders           ·   Leading Pedestrian Intervals
   · High Visibility Crosswalks                       ·   Pedestrian Countdown signals
   · Share the Road signs                             ·   Bicycle Boulevards

   High Priority, Long-Term
   · High Visibility Crosswalk with curb bump-outs
   · High Visibility Crosswalk with refuge island and curb bump-outs

Off-Street Recommendations
    High Priority, Short-Term
    · New Sidewalks and Sidewalk Improvements in high priority areas
    · Bicycle Racks at Destinations
    · Benches and Resting Points

   High Priority, Long-Term
   · Bicycle Lockers
   · Pedestrian & Bicycle-Oriented Parking Lots


                                             Page 8
                                                                                           1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


   ·   Shared-Access Driveways
   ·   Sidewalk Amenity Zone

Program and Policy Recommendations
   High Priority, Short-Term
   · Educational Programs
   · Program Effectiveness Measures
   · Maintenance Programs

   High Priority, Long-Term
   · Access Management Overlay District
   · Pedestrian/Bicycle Supportive Code Language

The implementation matrix also details the priority, timing, location, regulatory approvals needed and
the responsible parties for each of the recommended strategies.




                                              Page 9
                                                                  2
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS


GENESEE TRANSPORTATION COUNCIL

      Richard Perrin, Executive Director
      Robert Torzynski, Project Manager

TOWN OF GREECE

      John Auberger, Supervisor
      Gary Tajkowski, Director of Development Services
      Ronald Sassone, Senior Planner
      Scott Copey, Junior Planner

CITY OF ROCHESTER

      Robert Duffy, Mayor
      Erik Frisch, Department of Environmental Services

DEWEY AVENUE CORRIDOR TRAFFIC CALMING ADVISORY COMMITTEE

      Marvin Kleinberg, NYSDOT
      Scott Leathersich, Monroe County DOT
      Robert Torzynski, GTC
      Gary Tajkowski, Town of Greece
      Ron Sassone, Town of Greece
      Bob Johnson, Town of Greece
      Scott Copey, Town of Greece
      Erik Frisch, City of Rochester

ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN AND RESEARCH, Landscape Architecture, Planning,
Environmental Services, Engineering and Surveying, P.C. (EDR)

      274 North Goodman Street
      Rochester, NY 14607
      (t) 585-271-0040
      (f) 585-271-0042
      http://www.edrpc.com

SRF ASSOCIATES, Traffic Engineering and Planning Consultants

      3495 Winton Place, Bldg E Suite 110
      Rochester, NY 14623
      (t) 585-272-4660
      (f) 585-272-4662
      http://www.srfa.net


                                       Page 10
                                                                                            3
INTRODUCTION


This report summarizes the analysis and preliminary design studies of the Dewey Avenue Corridor
Traffic Calming Study. The Genesee Transportation Council (GTC) funded the preparation of the
report under its Unified Planning Work Program (UPWP). The Town of Greece and the City of
Rochester contracted with EDR and SRF Associates to conduct site analysis, assess feasibility, and
produce concept-level planning and design for a traffic calming strategy along Dewey Avenue in the
Town of Greece and the City of Rochester in Monroe County, New York. Guidelines for the design
and implementation of the traffic calming improvements were prepared.

Financial assistance for the preparation of this report was provided in part by the Federal Highway
Administration. The Town of Greece and the City of Rochester are solely responsible for its content
and the views and opinions expressed herein do not necessarily reflect the official views or policy of
the U.S. Department of Transportation.

A. Background and Purpose of Study
The Town of Greece, over the past thirty years, has completed several studies of the Dewey Avenue
corridor. The first corridor study, completed in 1980, focused on making the commercial districts
more attractive to shoppers, and improving the relationship between the commercial areas and
adjacent residential neighborhoods. Many of the recommendations of this study were implemented
in the 1980s and 1990s.

In 2001, the Town completed an update of their Community Master Plan. In order to implement the
recommendations contained in this update, the Greece Town Board adopted a new Zoning
Ordinance and Official Zoning Map in 2003. However, no major changes were made in the Dewey
Avenue area because the Master Plan Update recognized Dewey Avenue as an area with special
characteristics that was in need of further study, and the Town Board did not want to delay the
overall, town-wide zoning effort. As a result of recommendations made in the Master Plan Update,
the Town Board formed a task force to examine the existing conditions in the Dewey Avenue area
and recommend courses of action to take in order to preserve and enhance the corridor's vitality.

In the 2006 Interim Development Law, the Town Board identified the need to formulate new and
unique zoning standards that would be particular to the Dewey-Stone Road Corridor. Such new
standards would be intended to preserve the unique historical, developmental, and structural
characteristics of this corridor and the Dewey Avenue area in general, and to encourage future
development in the area that is sensitive to preserving these historical, developmental, and structural
characteristics. In order to protect the public interest, the Town Board used this law for an interim
period to limit non-single family residential construction on land in the Dewey-Stone Corridor.

During that time, the Dewey Avenue Corridor Study was initiated in 2006. The Town is experiencing
development along the corridor that does not support the vision for this area that is held by local
residents. The community anticipates further development, particularly in the commercial districts,
and would like to ensure that any future development strengthens community character. Instead of
an update of the earlier study, the Town wanted a much more comprehensive and in-depth effort to
re-evaluate Dewey Avenue. The Dewey Avenue Corridor Study summarizes the planning efforts
designed to create a more comprehensive work plan for preserving and revitalizing this area.

With the completion of the Dewey Avenue Corridor Study, the Town of Greece is eager to build upon
the community support and public awareness that the Study now enjoys. To continue this
momentum, the Town of Greece has already begun to implement some of the study's
recommendations, including the installation of pedestrian amenities. The Town determined that the

                                              Page 11
                                                                                           3
INTRODUCTION


next step was a feasibility study of traffic calming methods to determine how best to improve the
pedestrian experience and lessen reliance on vehicular travel. In pursuit of this goal, Greece (in
cooperation with Monroe County DOT) applied for and was awarded funding through the 2008-2009
UPWP to undertake a comprehensive feasibility study.

Subsequent to the submittal of Greece's UPWP application to the Genesee Transportation Council
(GTC), the City of Rochester inquired whether the Town of Greece would consider an extension of
the study area to include the portion of Dewey Avenue lying between Ridge Road West and the
Greece town line. Recognizing the interconnectedness and similarities between its segment of
Dewey Avenue and the segment proposed for inclusion by the City, the Town, with approval from
the GTC, agreed to expand the traffic calming study's scope. With the City of Rochester as a project
participant, the expanded version of the study was approved by the GTC for funding.

The purpose of the traffic calming study is to evaluate the options for reducing the adverse impacts
of vehicular traffic on pedestrian circulation within the sections of the Dewey Avenue Corridor
included in the study area. The study area consists of portions of the Dewey Avenue Corridor
located in the Town of Greece and the City of Rochester, which includes properties on either side of
Dewey Avenue from Latta Road on the north to Ridge Road West on the south.

B. Community Involvement
The planning process for this study included public outreach. Local residents and business owners
served on the advisory committee, and the general public was invited to two public information
meetings.

Committee Meetings:

   August 27, 2008 ­ Representatives from the Town of Greece, the City of Rochester, EDR, SRF,
   GTC, and Monroe County DOT convened for a project kickoff meeting at the Town Hall in
   Greece. The group reviewed the consultant selection process, recent corridor developments,
   consultant contracts, GTC oversight, project timetable, stakeholders/committee membership, the
   scope of services, deliverables, and billing. The group also discussed existing relevant plans
   and studies, as well as locations where a road diet has been employed successfully in and
   around the study area.

   December 5, 2008 ­ Representatives from the Town of Greece, the City of Rochester, EDR,
   SRF, GTC, Monroe County DOT, and NYSDOT met for the first Technical Committee meeting.
   The consultants gave a presentation that summarized the inventory of existing conditions. The
   corridor was discussed relating to: character zones, user groups, road width, traffic volumes,
   Level of Service for both sidewalks and crosswalks, and walk scores. The group discussed
   various issues, such as on-road bicycle facilities, snow storage and the formation of the Advisory
   Committee. The timing and content of the first public meeting was also discussed.

   August 17, 2009 ­ Representatives from the Town of Greece, the City of Rochester, EDR, SRF,
   GTC, Monroe County DOT, NYSDOT, Town of Greece Planning Board, Northgate Neighbors,
   and Dewey Avenue Corridor businesses met for an Advisory Committee meeting. The
   consultants reviewed the preliminary inventory and analysis report, MCDOT's Road Diet, the
   issues summary, alternatives and recommendations, the public meeting agenda, and the project
   timeline. The group discussed various topics, such as senior access to transit, use of the corridor
   by youth, business parking requirements and curb cuts, and traffic speeds.

                                             Page 12
                                                                                            3
INTRODUCTION


   March 3, 2010 ­ Representatives from the Town of Greece, the City of Rochester, EDR, SRF,
   GTC, Monroe County DOT, NYSDOT, Town of Greece Planning Board, Northgate Neighbors,
   and Dewey Avenue Corridor businesses met to review the draft recommendations for the
   corridor. In advance of the public meeting, the consultants provided an overview of the inventory
   and analysis, the issues summary, and the alternatives and recommendations. The group
   discussed various topics, such as access management and the feasibility of recommended
   strategies that are new to this region, such as bicycle boxes.

Public Information Meetings:

   September 28, 2009 ­ The first public information meeting was well attended by community
   members. The meeting provided information about the overall project, the inventory process,
   main issues, and next steps through the following tools: a handout, a looped PowerPoint
   presentation, and a series of display boards. Stations were set up displaying corridor maps and
   identified issues of concern. Community members were asked to provide feedback at the
   stations and via the handout. Appendix A provides a summary of the public comments compiled
   from the meeting. The consultants were available to answer questions, review material, and
   solicit input from the community members.

   April 26, 2010 ­ The second public information meeting was also well attended by community
   members. The meeting provided information about the overall project, the inventory and
   analysis process, main issues, corridor recommendations, and implementation steps through the
   following tools: a handout, a looped PowerPoint presentation, and a series of display boards.
   Community members were asked to provide feedback on comment sheets. Appendix A
   provides a summary of the public comments compiled from the meeting. The consultants were
   available to answer questions, review material, and solicit input from the community members.

C. Relationship to Other Plans and Studies
The Dewey Avenue Corridor Traffic Calming Study builds on the following previously completed
planning initiatives in the Town of Greece and the City of Rochester:

Dewey Avenue Mixed-Use Zoning District Planning Initiative
In 2009, the Town of Greece commenced an initiative to implement zoning modifications that were
identified in the Dewey Avenue Corridor Study. The need for more mixed-use development within
the Corridor's commercial districts is an essential part of the land use vision. To help achieve the
desired corridor character, the Town intends to develop a new mixed-use zoning district for the
Dewey-Latta, Northgate Plaza, and Dewey-Stone commercial nodes. The exact boundaries will be
determined in the course of the planning process. Completion of this initiative is anticipated in 2010.

Dewey Avenue Corridor Study
In 2007, EDR completed a corridor study for Dewey Avenue in the Town of Greece. The study,
designed to preserve and revitalize the corridor, involved site analysis, community visioning, design
guidelines, illustrative examples, planning tools, and recommendations for implementation. The
study envisions Dewey Avenue as a vibrant, safe, and active traditional mixed-use neighborhood.
The objective was to attain a sustainable and attractive balance of residential, commercial, and
institutional land uses. Automobile use is balanced with pedestrian accessibility and safety. The
core strategies of the study addressed enhancing commercial vitality, establishing livable
neighborhoods, and the preservation of local character. A key recommendation of the study was to
study traffic and pedestrian access in the Dewey Avenue Corridor.

                                              Page 13
                                                                                            3
INTRODUCTION



Dewey Avenue Community Design Charrette
In 2007, the Rochester Regional Community Design Center (RRCDC) and the Maplewood
Neighborhood Association conducted a neighborhood design charrette. Based on the input received
from neighborhood residents, the RRCDC prepared design recommendations for the segment of
Dewey Avenue between Lexington Avenue and Eastman Avenue. Recommendations were
prepared for the area surrounding the Dewey Avenue and Ridge Road intersection, which is
included in the study area for the Dewey Avenue Corridor Traffic Calming Study.

Interim Development Law of the Town of Greece, New York
In 2006, pending studies of matters that relate to development or redevelopment of properties along
or in the vicinity of Dewey Avenue, this law provided an interim measure to protect the public interest
by limiting non-single-family residential construction on land located in the Dewey Avenue-Stone
Road Corridor. The law established the Dewey Avenue Interim Overlay District for the purposes of
enforcing this law.

Community Master Plan & Generic Environmental Impact Statement for the Town of Greece
This Plan, completed in 2001 by Clough, Harbour and Associates, revised the 1992 Community
Master Plan. The plan provides an extensive inventory and analysis of the existing conditions in the
Town of Greece, and describes the Town's vision, goals and objectives. The plan also includes
recommendations, alternatives and an implementation plan for achieving the community vision.

Rochester 2010: The Renaissance Plan
The 2010 Renaissance Plan, completed in 1998, is Rochester's first citywide comprehensive plan
since 1964. The plan incorporates the goals and visions of each of the ten sector plans that were
prepared under the Neighbors Building Neighborhoods program. The plan uses three themes to
articulate a renaissance of urban revitalization: renaissance of responsibility, renaissance of
opportunity, and renaissance of community. The renaissance of responsibility theme seeks to renew
Rochester's history of civic activism and philanthropy established by past famous residents, such as
Frederick Douglass, Susan B. Anthony, and George Eastman. The renaissance of opportunity
theme promotes Rochester as the economic, social, cultural, transportation and institutional center
of the county and region. The renaissance of community theme seeks to identify Rochester's
downtown as a place that will be redeveloped and perceived as the region's Center City with an
exciting mix of housing, retail, services, cultural venues, entertainment and night life. Based on the
three themes, the Renaissance Plan identifies eleven goals, or campaigns:

 Campaign 1: Involved Citizens                         Campaign 7: Quality Service
 Campaign 2: Educational Excellence                    Campaign 8: Tourism Destination
 Campaign 3: Health, Safety, & Responsibility          Campaign 9: Healthy Urban Neighborhoods
 Campaign 4: Environmental Stewardship                 Campaign 10: Center City
 Campaign 5: Regional Partnerships                     Campaign 11: Arts and Culture
 Campaign 6: Economic Vitality

Transportation Project Report: Design Report, Dewey Avenue, Phase II
This report, prepared in 1992 by the NYSDOT and Monroe County DOT, addresses safety and
capacity improvements on a 3.3-mile section of Dewey Avenue in the Town of Greece. The report
discusses deficiencies within the existing highway corridor and makes recommendations for
improvements to existing pavement areas. Dewey Avenue was rebuilt with 4/5 lanes; the portion in
Greece was rebuilt in 1993, and the City section was rebuilt in 1997. (Not addressed in this report,

                                              Page 14
                                                                                           3
INTRODUCTION


but important to note: in 2009, the north end of Dewey Avenue, from Denise Road to Latta Road was
reduced to 3 lanes with shoulders by restriping.)

Dewey Avenue Parking Facilities, Town of Greece
This study was prepared in 1992 by Erdman Anthony Consulting Engineers for the Monroe County
Department of Engineering. The report addressed the existing parking problems on Dewey Avenue
in the vicinity of the Dewey-Stone Road business district. The report discusses transportation
deficiencies within the existing highway corridor and makes recommendations for improvements.

Dewey Avenue Revitalization Study
This study, prepared in 1980 by Erdman Anthony Associates and Architect John Fayko, was
prepared for the Town of Greece. The purpose of this study was to make the three commercial
districts located within the corridor more attractive to shoppers and encourage a better relationship
between the business districts and the residential neighborhoods that abut them. The study resulted
in recommendations for improving vehicular and pedestrian circulation systems, new off-street
parking facilities, and the condition of commercial properties. Many of the recommendations were
implemented in the 1980s and 1990s.

Regulations, Local Laws and Ordinances
Rules affecting land use and development in the Town of Greece and the City of Rochester, such as
Zoning (Chapter 211) of the Town of Greece Code and Zoning (Chapter 120) of the City of
Rochester Code.

D. Alternative Transportation Benefits
Transportation accounts for more than thirty percent of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions (West, 2007).
Alternative transportation, such as walking, bicycling, and taking public transportation, can help
alleviate this problem. According to the American Public Transportation Association (APTA), public
transportation in the United States saves approximately 1.4 billion gallons of gasoline and about 1.5
million tons of carbon dioxide annually (APTA, 2007). Walking and bicycling as a means of
transportation reduces carbon dioxide emissions even further. Walking, bicycling and public
transportation benefit the environment as well as personal health, finances, time, and stress. (See
Appendix B for more details on alternative transportation benefits.)

E. Complete Streets
In addition to understanding the opportunities and constraints specific to the study area, we can look
to the complete streets concept for solutions. According to the National Complete Streets Coalition
(NCSC), complete streets are roadways designed and operated to enable safe, attractive, and
comfortable access and travel for all users (NCSC, 2008). Pedestrians, bicyclists, motorists and
public transport users of all ages and abilities are able to safely and comfortably move along and
across a complete street. Complete streets also create a sense of place, improve social interaction,
and generally increase land values of adjacent property.

Complete streets look different in different places. They must fit with their context and to the
transportation modes expected (Laplante & McCann, 2008). Although no singular formula exists for
a complete street, an effective one includes at least some of the following features (NCSC, 2009):

         - sidewalks                                  - bus pullouts
         - bike lanes                                 - special bus lanes
         - wide shoulders                             - raised crosswalks

                                              Page 15
                                                                                              3
INTRODUCTION


             - plenty of crosswalks                       - audible pedestrian signals
             - refuge medians                             - sidewalk bump-outs (bulb-outs)

These features make a street safer and more pleasant for pedestrians and vehicles. A Federal
Highway Administration safety review found that designing a street for pedestrian travel by installing
raised medians and redesigning intersections and sidewalks reduced pedestrian risk by 28% (NCSC,
2009). The practice of complete streets is not only about allocation of street space, but also about
selecting a design speed that is appropriate to the street typology and location, and that allows for
safe movements by all road users (Laplante & McCann, 2008). (See Appendix C for more details on
complete streets.)

F. Types of Users: Bicyclists and Pedestrians
The Dewey Avenue Corridor is used by bicyclists and pedestrians of all ages and skill levels. Both
user groups are described briefly in this section, and in more detail in the next chapter.

Bicyclists
The Federal Highway Administration identifies the following types of bicycle users:

    -       Group A: Advanced Bicyclists
    -       Group B: Basic Bicyclists
    -       Group C: Children

Group A is comprised of advanced or experienced riders who are generally using their bicycles as
they would a motor vehicle. Group B is comprised of basic adult and teenage riders who may also
be using their bicycles for transportation purposes, but are less confident of their ability to operate in
traffic without special provisions for bicycles. Group C bicyclists are children riding on their own or
with their parents and require access to key destinations in their community, despite not traveling as
fast as their adult counterparts.

Pedestrians
Types of pedestrians include the following:

        -   Children
        -   Elderly - generally slower walking speed
        -   Disabled - mobility, hearing, and visually impaired
        -   Fitness walkers/joggers
        -   Shoppers
        -   Pedestrian Commuters - walking to work or school

The design of pedestrian facilities must address the needs and preferences of each of these types.
The pedestrian realm needs to be a place that all community members can use in a safe and
convenient fashion.

Town of Greece and City of Rochester Bicyclists and Pedestrians
Bicycling is a growing mode of transportation for recreation and commuting in the Town of Greece
and the City of Rochester. The 2000 U.S. Census recorded 94,141 residents living in the Town of
Greece and 219,773 living in the City of Rochester.



                                                 Page 16
                                                                                          3
INTRODUCTION


In 2000, less than one percent of workers over sixteen in Greece biked to work, and approximately
one percent of workers walked to work. Less than one percent of workers over sixteen in Rochester
biked to work, and approximately six percent of workers walked to work. More than half of the
workers over sixteen (23,828 residents in Greece and 52,442 in Rochester) worked within twenty
minutes from home. This suggests an opportunity to increase walking and bicycle ridership to work
with the proper facilities.

In addition, students are potential walkers and bicycle users. According to the 2000 U.S. Census,
6,263 residents of the Town of Greece, and 12,182 residents of the City of Rochester attended high
school. Elementary and middle school students can also walk and bike to school, but may require
supervision.

G. Goals and Objectives
The purpose of this traffic calming study is to evaluate the options for reducing the adverse impacts
of vehicular traffic on pedestrian circulation within the sections of the Dewey Avenue Corridor
included in the study area. The goals of the study, as identified by the Town of Greece and the City
of Rochester, include:

    -   Upgrading pedestrian circulation within the corridor to an equal priority with vehicular
        movement.
    -   Minimizing pedestrian conflicts and driver confusion, thus optimizing safety for both.
    -   Improved livability and quality of life.




                                             Page 17
                                                                                            4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


This section contains an inventory and analysis of existing conditions in the Dewey Avenue Corridor.
The topics discussed in this section include a corridor description, analysis of vehicular and
pedestrian conditions, and an assessment of walkability and bikability.

A. Corridor Description
The Town of Greece and the City of Rochester are located in north-central Monroe County. The City
of Rochester was officially established in 1817, and Town of Greece in 1822. From the earliest days,
the corridor functioned as a thoroughfare for farmers bringing their produce to market in Rochester
(Greece Historical Society, 2007). Dewey Avenue begins at Lyell Avenue in the City of Rochester
and extends 8 miles to the Town of Greece's northern border near Lake Ontario. The study area
covers approximately 3.75 miles from the intersection of Dewey Avenue with Ridge Road West to the
intersection of Dewey Avenue with Latta Road. Dewey Avenue is also known as New York State
Route 18, a state touring route. However, in the Town of Greece, Dewey Avenue is a Monroe
County highway and in the City of Rochester, the road is a city street.

In general, the Dewey Avenue area consists of businesses and residential neighborhoods that are
within about one half mile of the street. In the corridor segment within the Town of Greece, these
areas contain some of the oldest commercial and residential development found in the Town. This
area has special historical, developmental and structural characteristics that distinguish it from other
areas of Greece that were developed more recently (Community Master Plan, 2001). The character
is more similar in nature to that of the City of Rochester, mostly because it was developed in a similar
era. The neighborhoods in the portion of the study area in the Town of Greece fall into the larger
boundaries of planning district #2, as defined in the 2001 Town of Greece Community Master Plan.
Planning districts are areas that share common problems, issues and opportunities.

Planning district #2 consists predominantly of high density, single-family residential parcels that were
developed before World War II. During the late 1800's, Eastman Kodak developed a plant in the
southeastern corner of the town, creating new job opportunities and an increase in housing demand
(Tomkiewicz & Husted, 1984). In 1920, Sunrise Park was one of the first residential developments
along Dewey Avenue, at the southeast corner of the Dewey-Stone intersection. The housing was
advertised to potential buyers as the "tract with a thousand peach trees" (Greece Historical Society,
2006). This planning district is part of the early, urbanized part of Greece and is nearly fully
developed in a largely grid-like pattern, with few vacant parcels (CMP, 2001).

Historically, most of the commercial development in this area of the Town and the City was
concentrated along Dewey Avenue and Ridge Road. Today, Ridge Road is a more active
commercial corridor, while Dewey Avenue primarily serves neighborhood and community markets.
The Community Master Plan characterizes the area as one that faces the impact of commercial uses
through increased traffic, increased runoff from large parking areas, and a lack of suitable pedestrian
facilities. The plan suggests that land use conflicts contribute to the erosion of neighborhood
character which, as recent studies show, have encouraged people to move out of established
neighborhoods in search of less congested areas.

In the Dewey-Stone area, this commercial pressure has also resulted in the conversion of former
residential buildings and lots to commercial uses. Residential uses often adjoin non-residential
uses, typically with no transition or buffering between them. When most of the structures in the
Dewey Avenue area were built, the standards pertaining to setbacks, parking, lot sizes, building
sizes, infrastructure, and other similar elements of development were different than the current
standards in the Town.

                                              Page 18
                                             4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


          Figure 1: Data Collection Points




                     Page 19
                                                                                           4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


Dewey Avenue was reconstructed in the 1990's, upon completion of the 1992 Transportation Project
Report. The section within the Town of Greece was reconstructed in 1993, and the section in the
City of Rochester was reconstructed in 1997. During this time, the section of the corridor containing
4 (5) lanes was constructed. In 2009, a road diet occurred between McGuire and Rumson Roads.

1. Road Classification and Width
Dewey Avenue is functionally classified as an urban minor arterial. The posted speed limit is 35
MPH in the Town of Greece, and 30 MPH in the City of Rochester. The characteristics of the
roadway, such as dimensions, signalization, and intersection geometry, were documented for the
entire corridor. The roadway varies in lane configuration and width along the corridor. In the context
zones that are within the City of Rochester, the pavement width varies between 38' and 48',
depending on the presence of turn lanes at intersections. In the context zones that are within the
Town of Greece, the pavement width alternates between 46' and 56' depending on the presence of
turn lanes at intersections. In some segments there is also a two-way left turn lane between major
intersections.
                                    Figure 2: Pavement Width




                                              Page 20
                                                                                            4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


The lane geometry along Dewey Avenue is fairly consistent, aside from the presence or absence of
left turn lanes. Outside lane widths in the City portion of Dewey are 10' wide, while they are 12' wide
in the Town of Greece. The wider outside lane in the Town of Greece provides extra maneuvering
room; however, it is not wide enough to accommodate parked cars or bicyclists.

Generally, when motorists perceive a wide travel lane they tend to increase their speed. Roadway
corridors that feature narrow building setbacks and elements such as trees or parallel parking tend to
slow traffic, or at least make drivers more cautious. These elements are traffic-calming devices.

2. Character Zones
Dewey Avenue has a distinct variety of land uses and development characteristics along the corridor
that can be categorized into ten different character zones. See Figure 3 for a corridor map and
Appendix D for photos of existing conditions. (Please note ­ the character zone numbering
corresponds to the Dewey Avenue Corridor Study completed in 2007 for the Town of Greece, which
did not include the character zones located south of Zone 1 in the City of Rochester.)

Zone A
The most southern section of the study area, Zone A encompasses the Dewey Avenue and Ridge
Road intersection. The zone ends one block to the north, at Eastman Avenue. The Dewey-Ridge
intersection has 6 traffic lanes, narrowing to four lanes beyond the intersection. The area is
dominated by commercial and industrial development, including restaurants, bars and shops within
walking distance of the intersection. Much of the development in the adjacent areas is related to
Eastman Kodak, with Eastman Business Park and Kodak Park nearby. Many Kodak buildings have
been demolished in recent years, leaving vacant space and large empty parking lots in the vicinity.
Sidewalks in this area are 10' wide and abut the curb.

Zone B
Zone B is located between Eastman Avenue and Winchester Street. The area is primarily residential
use, consisting of mostly 2-story framed houses built at the beginning of the 20th century. Between
Christian Avenue and Winchester Street, the United Methodist Wesleyan Church sits on a large,
well-maintained property on the western side of Dewey. Small commercial properties exist at the
north and south edges of the zone. To a pedestrian, the four lanes of traffic may appear to move
quickly through this section of the corridor, despite being somewhat buffered by a tree lawn and a
few street trees. The cross streets that connect to Dewey are pedestrian friendly, with sidewalks,
street trees and attractive street lighting on both sides.

Zone C
Zone C is located between Winchester Street and the City/Town line. The area is dominated by Holy
Sepulchre Cemetery. The trees and open space of the cemetery are situated on the eastern side of
Dewey for virtually the entire stretch of this zone. Trees on the cemetery property add to the
attractive character of this area. The cemetery side of the corridor does not have sidewalks, and a
large iron fence bounds the cemetery perimeter. On the western side of Dewey is a mixture of
single-family homes and small businesses. Cross streets in this area, such as Langford Road, are
also fairly pleasant. The character changes somewhat when Dewey Avenue crosses the railroad
tracks, and the cemetery ends. The character past the railroad tracks consists of a mix of residential
and commercial buildings, similar to the character found in the adjacent sector, Zone 1.




                                              Page 21
   N




   DEWEY AVENUE CORRIDOR TRAFFIC CALMING STUDY
City of Rochester and Town of Greece, Monroe County, New York

Figure 3 - Character Zones
                                                                Note: The zone numbers in this figure correspond with Zones 1 - 7 that were
                                                                identified in the Town of Greece Dewey Avenue Corridor Study. Zones A, B, and C,
                                                                which are located in the CIty of Rochester, were added for the Traffic Calming
                                                                Study. Their location south of Zone 1 necessitated a different identifier than a
July 2010                                                       number, since the numbers would be out of order.
                                                                                              4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


Zone One
This section of Dewey Avenue can be found between the City/Town line and Haviland Park. Within
this zone, a mix of residential and commercial uses exists. Commercial development is close to the
street in comparison to other commercial development along Dewey Avenue. Many of the residential
structures have been converted to commercial use.

Zone Two
Moving north along the corridor, the Dewey-Stone area is the next distinct zone, located at the
intersection of Dewey Avenue, Stone Road and Maiden Lane. This area is almost exclusively small-
scale commercial development, with drug stores, restaurants and gas stations. A significant
landmark in this area is the St. Charles Borromeo Roman Catholic Church complex, which includes
both the current church building and the old church structure, which is now used for a parish center.
This intersection is now known as "Dewey-Stone", but was formerly known as "Barnard".

Zone Three
The open, graceful campus of St. Joseph's Villa defines the next zone along the corridor. St.
Joseph's Villa helps at-risk youth overcome emotional and behavioral challenges, and is situated on
a campus that was previously used as a vegetable and flower bulb farm by Vick Quality Seeds. St.
Joseph's Villa contains some of the oldest trees, most attractive architecture, and well-maintained
grounds along the Dewey Avenue corridor. On the western side of the street are well-maintained
residences fronted by a large tree lawn where the road curves.

Zone Four
Zone four begins near Veness Creek and Dorsey Road, and is comprised of a residential area that
continues along Dewey up to Kyoto Japanese Restaurant and the HSBC bank at Britton Road. This
residential area has a more varied collection of architectural styles than the other residential zones
along the corridor, and the houses are situated closer to the street than in other residential sectors.

Zone Five
Zone five is located between Britton and Denise Road. This area contains a variety of large and
small commercial uses, including a Wegman's supermarket and Northgate Plaza. Discount retailer
Big Lots currently anchors Northgate Plaza and is flanked by a number of smaller commercial
spaces, several of which are currently vacant. (A Wal-Mart store is planned for Northgate Plaza,
which will replace Big Lots and overhaul the plaza.) On the western side of Dewey Avenue, across
from the Wegman's supermarket and Northgate Plaza, are a number of smaller commercial
businesses. These smaller businesses, which include Goodyear, Advance Auto Parts, Wendy's,
Kwik Fill, and Dunkin' Donuts, are sited closer to the street than Wegman's and Northgate Plaza,
which are separated from the corridor by large parking areas.

Zone Six
North of this major commercial area, zone six contains another residential area. Near McGuire
Road, a well-maintained residential zone begins and continues on to Rumson Road. The homes
located in this area are small, and set back a bit further from the street than in other residential areas
along Dewey Avenue. Aldersgate United Methodist Church is also located in this segment of the
corridor. During the course of the traffic calming study, a road diet was implemented by the Monroe
County DOT in this area of the corridor.




                                               Page 22
                                                                                            4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


Zone Seven
The final zone along Dewey Avenue is the Dewey-Latta area. Between Rumson and Latta Roads,
the uses along Dewey Avenue are exclusively commercial. Several plazas can be found in this
sector, as well as some chain stores and restaurants, such as Rite Aid and Burger King. The plazas
and businesses in this area are well maintained, but have deep setbacks and large amounts of
asphalt. Rite Aid Pharmacy, which is situated on the southwest corner of the Dewey-Latta
intersection, is particularly unfriendly to pedestrians because of the lack of windows on the sides of
the building that face Dewey Avenue and Latta Road.

3. Pedestrian Generators
Many pedestrian generators (destinations that are frequented by pedestrians) exist along the Dewey
Avenue Corridor. These pedestrian generators are a fairly typical mix for an urban-suburban arterial.
They include, but are not limited to:

    -       Retail plazas of various sizes, which include Northgate Plaza, medium-sized strip retail
            plazas near Latta, Ridge, and Stone, as well as smaller ones throughout the corridor;
    -       Schools, including St. Joseph's Villa, and others within close proximity;
    -       The Barnard Crossing branch of the Greece Public Library;
    -       The post office north of Ridge Road;
    -       Churches, including Bethany Presbyterian Church, Covenant Presbyterian Church, Wesley
            United Methodist Church, Dewey Avenue Presbyterian Church, Church of Christ (Lawson
            Rd), and Aldersgate United Methodist Church
    -       Single- and multi-family residential

These land uses are prime examples of pedestrian generators. It is important that residents and
visitors are able to walk to and between these corridor destinations. Figure 4 illustrates the existing
linkages located along the Dewey Avenue Corridor. Recognizable linkages on the Dewey Avenue
Corridor include the paths that connect:

        -   Retail to Retail                             -   Neighborhoods to the Corridor
        -   Schools to Churches                          -   Schools To Retail
        -   Schools to the Library                       -   Churches to Retail
        -   Churches to the Library                      -   Retail to the Library
        -   Churches to the Post Office

Strong pedestrian connections between these neighborhood destinations are what sustain a thriving
pedestrian environment. Priority should be given to the connective paths identified in the linkage
assessment as prime locations for pedestrian realm and crossing facility improvements.

4. Public Transit
Public transit removes automobiles from the road, and accounts for a component of pedestrian traffic
between bus stops and destinations. Three Regional Transit Service (RTS) bus routes serve the
Dewey Avenue Corridor. Route 10 "Dewey", travels back and forth between downtown Rochester
and the intersection of Dewey Avenue and Latta Road. The route follows Dewey for most of the way
and also makes two loops onto side roads. Route 14 "Ridge Road" travels along Ridge Road
between Greece and Irondequoit, with loops to downtown Rochester. This route provides an east-
west connection to the southern end of Dewey Avenue. Route 15 "Latta" also travels between
downtown Rochester and the Dewey/Latta intersection, but has a more complex series of loops than


                                               Page 23
                                                                                        4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


Route 10. All three bus routes travel through the study area on a regular basis. Figure 5 shows the
location of bus stops along the Dewey Avenue Corridor.

                            Figure 4: Destinations and Linkages




5. Historic and Scenic Features
Historic and scenic features along the corridor are varied. The southern end of the corridor offers
distinctive views of Kodak Park, which is an important piece of the history of both the City of
Rochester and the Town of Greece. Currently, the views to Kodak Park from Dewey Avenue occur
across an expanse of underutilized parking areas, but the space, if redeveloped, offers interesting
possibilities for improved views.

In other places along the corridor, Dewey Avenue runs adjacent to scenic open space areas. Two
examples of this are St. Joseph's Villa and Holy Sepulchre Cemetery. The mature vegetation at
these properties provides an attractive green edge in an otherwise fairly developed corridor.



                                            Page 24
                                          4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


           Figure 5: Bus Stop Locations




                    Page 25
                                                                                               4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


B. Vehicular Inventory and Analysis
The following section details the existing traffic volume, vehicular capacity analysis, projected traffic
volume, and provides a safety evaluation for the Dewey Avenue Corridor.

1. Existing Traffic Volume
Weekday AM (7:00-9:00AM) and PM (4:00-6:00pm) vehicular turning movement count volumes and
pedestrian crossing volumes, as well as hourly machine recorded vehicular counts at several
locations throughout the study area were obtained from the Monroe County Department of
Transportation (MCDOT). The data varied in age and where necessary, older data were updated.
SRF collected updated turning movement count data at four intersections (Latta Road, Maiden Lane,
Stone Road, and McCall Road) within the study area on December 11, 2008, January 21, 2009 and
January 22, 2009. This data can be seen in Figure 7, Existing Traffic Volumes.


                              Figure 6: Average Daily Traffic Volume




                                                Page 26
                                                                                           4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


Data was also collected on the signal timing and phasing at each of the signalized intersections
along the Dewey Avenue Corridor. This information was necessary to calibrate the traffic operations
model used for analysis of the study area. This data can be seen in Appendix E, Collected Traffic
Data, available upon request.

2. Vehicular Capacity Analysis
The capacity analysis data collected was used to assess the quality of vehicular traffic flow for the
existing AM and PM commuter peak hour conditions at the signalized intersections in the study area.
Two measures of effectiveness are used, Level of Service (LOS) and Intersection Capacity
Utilization (ICU). Capacity analysis is a technique used for determining a measure of effectiveness
for a section of roadway and/or intersection based on the number of vehicles during a specific time
period. A LOS is calculated to provide an indication of the amount of delay that a motorist
experiences while traveling along a roadway or through an intersection. Since motorists experience
the most delay at intersections, the capacity analysis specifically focuses on intersections.

Six Levels of Service are defined for analysis purposes. They are assigned letter designations, from
"A" to "F", with LOS "A" representing operating conditions with the least time delay. LOS "F" is the
least desirable operating condition where longer delays are experienced by motorists. Suggested
ranges of service capacity are included in Appendix E, Collected Traffic Data, available upon
request.

The standard procedure for capacity analysis of signalized and unsignalized intersections is outlined
in the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM 2000). Traffic analysis software, SYNCHRO 7.0 (Build
761), which is based on procedures and methodologies contained in the HCM 2000, was used to
analyze operating conditions at study area intersections. The procedure yields a LOS based on the
HCM 2000 as an indicator of how well intersections operate. Existing operating conditions are
documented in the field and modeled using traffic analysis software. The traffic analysis models are
calibrated based on actual field observations, and included the 2009 lane changes near Latta Road.

The Intersection Capacity Utilization (ICU) can be thought of as an intersection wide volume-to-
capacity ratio. ICU is well suited to the purpose of transportation planning studies. The intended
applications for ICU are traffic impact studies, future roadway conceptual design, and congestion
management programs. The ICU is not intended for operations or signal timing design. The primary
output from ICU is analogous to the intersection volume-to-capacity ratio. The ICU does not provide
a complete picture of intersection performance, but it does provide a clear view of the intersection's
volume related to its capacity. A summary of LOS/ICU calculations for the signalized study area
intersections is presented in Table 1.

         Table 1: Existing Level of Service and Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                       EXISTING CONDITIONS
                  INTERSECTION
                                                       AM                 PM
      Dewey Avenue /Latta Road
                         Eastbound ­ Latta Road         B                  B
                        Westbound ­ Latta Road          A                  A
                    Northbound - Dewey Avenue           C                  C
                   Southbound - Dewey Avenue            D                  C
            Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU C(21.2)/48.7%        C(21.4)/62.2%

                                              Page 27
                                                                       4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS



  Dewey Avenue /Denise Road
                 Eastbound ­ Denise Road         B               B
                Westbound ­ Denise Road          B               C
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue         A               A
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU   A(5.7)/49.5%    A(9.3)/71.9%
  Dewey Avenue /Northgate Plaza
             Eastbound ­ Northgate Manor         A               B
             Westbound ­ Northgate Plaza         B               C
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue         A               A
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU   A(2.0)/35.9%    A(4.0)/62.0%
  Dewey Avenue /English Road
                Eastbound ­ English Road         B                B
                Westbound ­ English Road         B                C
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue         A                B
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A                B
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU   A(8.2)/56.2%    B(15.4)/63.9%
  Dewey Avenue /Britton Road
                 Eastbound ­ Britton Road        A                B
                 Westbound ­ Britton Road        B                C
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue         A                B
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A                A
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU   A(7.0)/56.9%    B(15.6)/63.9%
  Dewey Avenue /Dorsey Road
                 Eastbound ­ Dorsey Road         B                C
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue         A                A
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A                B
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU   A(5.1)/56.5%    B(13.5)/57.0%
  Dewey Avenue /Maiden Lane
                 Eastbound ­ Maiden Lane          B               B
                Westbound ­ Maiden Lane          NA              NA
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue           C               C
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU   B(17.5)/38.3%   B(17.4)/42.7%
  Dewey Avenue /Stone Road
                  Eastbound ­ Stone Road          C               D
                 Westbound ­ Stone Road           A               C
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue          B               C
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue           C               D
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU   B(18.6)/61.5%   C(30.1)/71.0%

                                  Page 28
                                                                     4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS



  Dewey Avenue /Dalston Road
                 Eastbound ­ Dalston Road       C              C
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue        A              A
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue         A              A
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU A(0.6)/35.9%    A(1.7)/50.0%
  Dewey Avenue /Ellington Road
                Eastbound ­ Ellington Road      B               B
                     Westbound ­ Driveway       B               B
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue        A               A
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue         A               A
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU A(5.3)/31.6%    A(3.84)/45.4%
  Dewey Avenue /Banker Place-Bennington Drive
                 Eastbound ­ Banker Place       B              B
            Westbound ­ Bennington Drive        A              A
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue        A              A
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue         B              B
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU A(4.3)/45.8%    A(5.5)/47.0%
  Dewey Avenue /McCall Road
                  Eastbound ­ McCall Road       B              B
                 Westbound ­ McCall Road        C              A
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue        A              A
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue         A              B
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU A(5.0)/35.7%    A(6.2)/46.5%
  Dewey Avenue /Christian Avenue-Merrill Street
            Eastbound ­ Christian Avenue        C              B
                 Westbound ­ Merrill Street     C              B
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue        A              A
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue         A              A
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU A(5.9)/52.3%    A(7.0)/49.8%
  Dewey Avenue /Eastman Avenue
            Eastbound ­ Eastman Avenue          A               A
            Westbound ­ Eastman Avenue          B               B
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue        A               A
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue         A               B
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU A(4.5)/53.3%    B(11.4)/54.1%
  Dewey Avenue /West Ridge Road
               Eastbound ­ W. Ridge Road        B               B
              Westbound ­ W. Ridge Road         C               B
               Northbound - Dewey Avenue        D               D
              Southbound - Dewey Avenue         D               C
       Overall LOS (Delay in sec/veh) ICU C(28.8)/73.9%   C(25.0)/73.9%

                                 Page 29
                                                                                          




                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                              




                    
                    
                    
                                                                                          
                                                                                          


                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                          
                                                                                          




                            
                            
                                                                                          




                            
                                                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    




                              




                    
                    
                    
                                                                                          
                                                                                          


                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       
                                                                                          




                            
                            
                                                                                          
                                                                                          




                            
                                                                       

                                                                       
                                                                                       
                                                                                       




                              




                    
                    
                    
                              
                              


                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                  




                            
                                                                                          




                            
                                                                                          




                            
                                                      




                                                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    




                        
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
                                                                              
                                                                                    
                                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
                                                                                          




                           
                                                                             




                                                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    




                              
                    
                    
                    



                                                                                          
                                                                                          
                                                                                 
                                                                                    
                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                          




                
                                                                                          




                            
                            
                                                                                          




                            




                                                                       
                                                                    

                                                                                 

                                                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    




                                                                 
                    
                    
                    
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    




                                                                                          
                                                                                          


                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                          




                            
                                                            




                            
                                                            
                                                                                          
                                                                                          




                                                            




                            




                                                                                 




                                                                                 
                                                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    




                                                                 
                    
                    
                    
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    




                                                                                          
                                                                                          

    N
                                                                                    
                                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                            




                            
                                                                                          




                            
                                                                                          




                                                            
                                                                                          




                                                            




                            




Not to Scale



            
    DEWEY AVENUE CORRIDOR TRAFFIC CALMING STUDY
 City of Rochester and
                       Town of Greece, Monroe County, New York
                                                         
 Figure 7- Existing Traffic Volumes



 July 2010
                                                                                          




                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                              




                    
                    
                    
                                                                                          
                                                                                          


                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                          
                                                                                          




                            
                            
                                                                                          




                            
                                                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    




                              




                    
                    
                    
                                                                                          
                                                                                          


                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       
                                                                                          




                            
                                                                                          




                            
                            
                                                                                          




                                                                       

                                                                       
                                                                                       
                                                                                       




                              




                    
                    
                    
                              
                              


                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                  




                            
                                                                                          




                            
                                                                                          




                                                      




                            
                                                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    




                        
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
                                                                              
                                                                                    
                                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
                                                                                          




                           
                                                                             




                                                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    




                              
                    
                    
                    



                                                                                          
                                                                                          
                                                                                 
                                                                                    
               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                          




               
                                                                                          




                            
                            
                                                                                          




                            




                                                                       
                                                                    

                                                                                 

                                                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    




                                                                 
                    
                    
                    
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    




                                                                                          
                                                                                          


                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                          




                            
                                                            




                            
                                                                                          




                                                            
                                                                                          




                                                            




                                                                                 
                            




                                                                                 
                                                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    




                                                                 
                    
                    
                    
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    




                                                                                          
                                                                                          

     N
                                                                                    
                                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                            




                            
                                                                                          




                            
                                                                                          




                                                            
                                                                                          




                                                            




                            




Not to Scale



             
     DEWEY AVENUE CORRIDOR TRAFFIC CALMING STUDY
 City of Rochester and
                       Town of Greece, Monroe County, New York
                                                          
 Figure 8 - Future Traffic Volumes


 July 2010
                                                                                             4
 INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


 Analyses of the existing intersections indicate that all of the intersections studied are currently
 operating at level of service "C" or better on all approaches during the peak periods, with the
 following exceptions that currently operate at LOS "D":

     -   Dewey Avenue southbound at Latta Road during the AM peak hour;
     -   Stone Road eastbound and Dewey Avenue southbound at Stone Road during the PM peak
         hour; and
     -   Dewey Avenue northbound and southbound during the AM peak hour and northbound
         during the PM peak hour at West Ridge Road.

 The ICU results indicate that all of the study intersections are currently operating at less than 65% of
 their capacity during both peak hours except the Denise and Stone Road intersections during the PM
 peak hour and the West Ridge Road intersection during both peak hours which are operating at
 approximately 75% of their capacity. These percentages indicate that there is excess capacity
 available at these intersections and overall throughout the corridor. This suggests that opportunities
 may exist for pedestrian and bicycle enhancements without significantly compromising vehicular
 capacities. These ICU results are for planning level purposes only. Further analysis using the HCM
 method is necessary before reducing the number of lanes on Dewey Avenue.

 3. Future Traffic Volumes
 Historical traffic volume growth in the study area and planned developments in the corridor were
 reviewed and evaluated to determine a growth rate to account for normal increases in area-wide
 traffic growth. A twenty-year traffic forecast was derived and used for future traffic analyses. Re-
 development of Northgate Plaza will add approximately 250-300 vehicles per hour (vph) (total both
 directions) to the through traffic north of Denise Road and south of Britton Road during the PM peak
 hour. This equates to a growth rate of approximately 1% to 1.3% per year for 20 years.

 The Northgate Plaza trip projections were added to the existing traffic at the immediate intersections
 (Britton to Denise) and a growth rate of 1% per year for 20 years was added to the remainder of the
 intersections in the Dewey Avenue corridor to account for future growth during the PM peak hour.
 During the AM peak hour, a growth rate of 0.5% per year for 20 years was added to the morning
 peak hour traffic to account for growth as the retail uses are not as active during this time period.
 These growth rates were reviewed and approved by Monroe County Department of Transportation
 for use in this analysis. Figure 8 shows the 2029 peak hour traffic volumes at the study intersections.

 A summary of LOS/ICU calculations for the signalized study area intersections under existing and
 future (2029) no-build conditions is presented in Table 2.

             Table 2: Future Level of Service and Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                     EXISTING CONDITIONS              FUTURE NO-BUILD
         INTERSECTION                      AM               PM                AM                 PM
Dewey Avenue /Latta Road
         Eastbound ­ Latta Road             B                B                  B                 C
         Westbound ­ Latta Road             A                A                  A                 A
     Northbound - Dewey Avenue              C                C                 C                  D
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue               D                C                 D                  C


                                                Page 30
                                                                                    4
 INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU   C(21.2)/48.7%   C(21.4)/62.2%   C(21.8)/52.3%   C(26.7)/73.0%
Dewey Avenue /Denise Road
      Eastbound ­ Denise Road          B               B               B               B
      Westbound ­ Denise Road          B               C               B               C
    Northbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               A
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               B
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU   A(5.7)/49.5%    A(9.3)/71.9%    A(5.4)/48.8%    A(10.0)/79.3%
Dewey Avenue /Northgate Plaza
   Eastbound ­ Northgate Manor         A               B               A               B
   Westbound ­ Northgate Plaza         B               C               B               C
    Northbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               A
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               D
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU   A(2.0)/35.9%    A(4.0)/62.0%    A(2.0)/37.6%    C(24.2)/74.2%
Dewey Avenue /English Road
      Eastbound ­ English Road         B               B               B               C
      Westbound ­ English Road         B               C               B               C
    Northbound - Dewey Avenue          A               B               A               B
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A               B               A               B
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU   A(8.2)/56.2%    B(15.4)/63.9%   A(8.4)/58.7%    B(19.2)/72.9%
Dewey Avenue /Britton Road
       Eastbound ­ Britton Road        A               B               A               B
      Westbound ­ Britton Road         B               C               B               C
    Northbound - Dewey Avenue          A               B               A               C
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               A
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU   A(7.0)/56.9%    B(15.6)/63.9%   A(7.6)/59.6%    B(18.9)/73.6%
Dewey Avenue /Dorsey Road
      Eastbound ­ Dorsey Road          B               C               B               C
    Northbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               B
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A               B               A               B
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU   A(5.1)/56.5%    B(13.5)/57.0%   B(6.1)/59.0%    B(15.9)/67.3%
Dewey Avenue /Maiden Lane
      Eastbound ­ Maiden Lane          B               B               B               B
      Westbound ­ Maiden Lane          NA              NA              NA              NA


                                            Page 31
                                                                                    4
 INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS



    Northbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               B
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue          C               C               C               D
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU   B(17.5)/38.3%   B(17.4)/42.7%   C(20.2)/40.8%   C(22.0)/49.9%
Dewey Avenue /Stone Road
       Eastbound ­ Stone Road          C               D               C               D
       Westbound ­ Stone Road          A               C               B               E
    Northbound - Dewey Avenue          B               C               B               B
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue          C               D               C               D
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU   B(18.6)/61.5%   C(30.1)/71.0%   B(19.6)/65.7%   D(44.0)/83.7%
Dewey Avenue /Dalston Road
      Eastbound ­ Dalston Road         C               C               C               C
    Northbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               A
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               A
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU   A(0.6)/35.9%    A(1.7)/50.0%    A(0.9)/38.3%    A(2.0)/57.2%
Dewey Avenue /Ellington Road
     Eastbound ­ Ellington Road        B               B               B               B
         Westbound ­ Driveway          B               B               B               B
    Northbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               A
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               A
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU   A(5.3)/31.6%    A(3.84)/45.4%   A(5.5)/33.5%    A(4.0)/54.2%
Dewey Avenue /Banker Place-Bennington Drive
      Eastbound ­ Banker Place         B               B               B               B
  Westbound ­ Bennington Drive         A               A               A               A
    Northbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               A
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue          B               B               B               B
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU   A(4.3)/45.8%    A(5.5)/47.0%    A(4.4)/49.1%    A(6.3)/55.0%
Dewey Avenue /McCall Road
       Eastbound ­ McCall Road         B               B               B               B
      Westbound ­ McCall Road          C               A               C               A
    Northbound - Dewey Avenue          A               A               A               A
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue          A               B               A               B
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU   A(5.0)/35.7%    A(6.2)/46.5%    A(5.2)/38.6%    A(7.4)/52.3%



                                           Page 32
                                                                                              4
 INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS



Dewey Avenue /Christian Avenue-Merrill Street
   Eastbound ­ Christian Avenue             C                 B                 C                  B
       Westbound ­ Merrill Street           C                 B                 C                  B
     Northbound - Dewey Avenue              A                 A                 A                  B
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue               A                 A                 A                  A
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU       A(5.9)/52.3%      A(7.0)/49.8%      A(6.3)/54.8%      A(8.8)/58.0%
Dewey Avenue /Eastman Avenue
   Eastbound ­ Eastman Avenue               A                 A                 A                  B
   Westbound ­ Eastman Avenue               B                 B                 B                  B
     Northbound - Dewey Avenue              A                 A                 A                  A
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue               A                 B                 A                  B
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU       A(4.5)/ 53.3%    B(11.4)/54.1%      A(5.2)/ 53.3%     B(14.0)/ 62.2%
Dewey Avenue /West Ridge Road
     Eastbound ­ W. Ridge Road              B                 B                 C                  C
    Westbound ­ W. Ridge Road               C                 B                 B                  D
     Northbound - Dewey Avenue              D                 D                 D                  D
    Southbound - Dewey Avenue               D                 C                 F                  D
                  Overall LOS /
          Delay in sec/veh /ICU      C(28.8)/73.9%     C(25.0)/73.9%      D(48.5)/90.1%     D(37.6)/87.3%

 Analyses of the study intersections indicate that all of the intersections studied are operating at level
 of service "C" or better on all approaches during the peak periods under 2029 future no-build
 conditions with the following exceptions that are projected to operate at LOS "D":
     · Dewey Avenue southbound at Latta Road during the AM peak hour and northbound during
         the PM peak hour;
     · Dewey Avenue southbound at the new Northgate Plaza Wal-Mart driveway during the PM
         peak hour;
     · Dewey Avenue southbound at Maiden Lane during the PM peak hour;
     · Stone Road eastbound and Dewey Avenue southbound at Stone Road during the PM peak
         hour; and
     · Dewey Avenue at West Ridge Road: northbound Dewey Ave operates at LOS "D" and
         southbound Dewey Ave operates at LOS "F" during the AM peak hour, and the westbound,
         northbound and southbound approaches all operate at LOS "D" during the PM peak hour.

 The ICU results indicate that all of the study intersections are projected to operate at less than 65%
 of their capacity during the AM peak hour except the Stone Road intersection, which is projected to
 operate at 65.7% under future no-build conditions. During the PM peak hour the intersections are
 divided into three categories as follows:
     · ICU <70%: Dorsey Rd, Maiden Lane, Dalston Rd, Ellington Rd, Bennington Dr, McCall Rd,
          and Merrill St, and Eastman Ave.
     · 70% < ICU < 80%: Latta Rd, Denise Rd, Northgate Plaza, English Rd, and Britton Rd.

                                                Page 33
                                                                                          4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


   ·   ICU > 80%: Stone Road and West Ridge Road

Based upon the operational analyses and local development patterns, intersections with ICU's
greater than 70% may not be capable of accommodating major traffic calming improvements.
Intersections with ICU's below 70% have excess vehicular capacity available suggesting that
opportunities may exist for pedestrian and bicycle enhancements without significantly compromising
vehicular capacities. According to Intersection Capacity Utilization Evaluation Procedures for
Intersections and Interchanges 2003 Edition published by Trafficware, intersections with ICU's
between 64% and 73% are characterized as "having no major congestion. The majority of traffic
should be served on the first cycle." In reviewing the ICU's at intersections throughout the Dewey
Avenue corridor, 70% is used to differentiate between intersections that are potential candidates for
a road diet. However, it is noted that detailed capacity analyses are required to determine the
appropriate geometry at each intersection.

                      Figure 9: Accidents in the Dewey Avenue Corridor




                                             Page 34
                                                                                                4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


4. Safety Evaluation
Accident reports were investigated to assess the safety history within the study area. The accident
reports reviewed covered a three-year time period from September 1, 2005 through August 31,
2008. During this period, 290 accidents were documented within the study area; comprised of 186
accidents at 15 intersections and 104 accidents in the segments between intersections. 5 accidents
involved pedestrians and 7 accidents involved bicycles.

The intersections of Latta, English, Britton, Stone, and Ridge with Dewey Avenue had the greatest
number of accidents. Several mid-block segments also had a high number of accidents including
Latta to Rumson, Denise to English, English to Britton, Stone to Dalston, and Dalston to Bennington.
Vehicular collisions with pedestrians and bicyclists occurred mostly within the Northgate area, Stone
Road area, and at the intersection of Ridge Road with Dewey Avenue. Figure 9 identifies accident
locations.

C. Pedestrian Inventory and Analysis
Providing safe routes of travel for cars, bicycles, and pedestrians is a responsibility and priority for all
communities. Pedestrian safety was evaluated based on factors such as sidewalk width and quality,
and the presence of a buffer zone, also referred to as the tree lawn or the furnishings and edge
zones. Pedestrian safety factors present in the travelway include crosswalk length and quality,
presence or absence of medians, and the type of median.

1. Pedestrian Realm Data
The pedestrian realm is defined as the area of the right-of-way between the roadway and the
abutting building facade. The pedestrian realm can extend into private property if the facilities to
support pedestrians, such as sidewalks or other amenities are present, and the property owner
allows the use of the property for pedestrian use. Businesses often provide amenities for pedestrians
to attract interest and enhance safety for pedestrian users. The pedestrian realm often includes:

     -   Sidewalks
     -   Buffers that create space between the pedestrian and vehicular traffic
     -   Plantings or other ornamental features on public or private property
     -   On-street parking (which also serves as a buffer)
     -   Street/Pedestrian lighting
     -   Signage
     -   Street furniture and amenities (e.g. benches, waste and recycling containers, public art)

Oftentimes, traffic control devices, road signage, and other objects are placed within the pedestrian
realm, but may not be intended for the use of pedestrians. Oftentimes, these items are obstructions
to the pedestrian. This can be particularly problematic when sidewalks abut the road, which occurs
frequently along the corridor.

SRF & Associates (SRF) walked the entire length of the corridor, from Latta Road in the north to
Ridge Road in the south, to collect data with the appropriate level of detail. The walk was performed
on Thursday, September 25, 2008, between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. SRF collected data
pertaining to the pedestrian realm of both the east and west sides of the street on Dewey Avenue,
and also measured and documented the conditions of the roadway. Critical variables, documented
during the data collection process, were utilized to evaluate how well the Dewey Avenue Corridor
serves non-motorized users.


                                                Page 35
                                                                                               4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


The variables include:
    - Sidewalk width/condition
    - Buffer width
    - Number of street trees
    - Crossing facilities (crosswalk dimensions and pedestrian signal operation)
    - Benches
    - Newspaper and trash receptacles
    - Bus stops/shelters
    - Pedestrian generators
    - Conflict points (i.e. locations where a pedestrian is in direct conflict with vehicular traffic)
    - Personal security (the feeling of security from criminal activity)

In addition, an investigation of access driveways, or curb cuts, was performed during the walk of the
corridor, and was used in the Pedestrian LOS analyses. Segments that contain numerous access
driveways have a high number of conflict points between vehicles and pedestrians (i.e. pedestrians
must cross several driveways as they walk along the sidewalk). The segment of roadway between
Britton and Denise is of particular concern. Segments with a significant number of conflict points
should be further evaluated to determine if access consolidation is feasible and/or appropriate.

2. Grading Scale ­ Pedestrian Path LOS
A pedestrian LOS was developed for the pedestrian realm on both sides of the roadway along the
entire length of the corridor. Using a score rating of 1 to 5, every zone of the Dewey Avenue
pedestrian realm was scored based on the pedestrian realm variables described above.

The Australian Method, developed by Nicole Gallin for calculating Pedestrian Levels of Service, was
used for analysis purposes in this study. A research paper entitled "Application of Level of Service
Methods for Evaluation of Operations at Pedestrian Facilities" published in the Transportation
Research Record in 2002 compared five different pedestrian Level of Service methodologies. This
method was chosen because of the critical pedestrian realm factors that are considered in
calculating the LOS score. The Australian Method is focused on safety, as well as the relative
comfort and convenience for pedestrians, which the Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) methodology
neglects to measure. A national standard does not exist that ranks the quality of the pedestrian
environment quite like the Australian Method.

The consultant team, in collaboration with the Advisory Committee, assigned weights to the
Pedestrian LOS variables corresponding to their importance in the context of the Dewey Avenue
corridor. The following scale of 1 to 5, was used for determining the weight of each variable:

                                      Table 3: Weighting Scale

                                             Weighting Scale
                                         1           Least important
                                         2            Less important
                                         3              Important
                                         4            More Important
                                         5            Most important



                                                Page 36
                                                                                            4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


Variables were assigned a specific weight based on the following:

1 - Pedestrian Volume - For this assessment, high pedestrian volumes correlate to a decreased LOS
due to congestion and user discomfort. Since the Dewey Avenue Corridor is low intensity
urban/suburban in character, and not a bustling downtown core, the presence of other pedestrians
will not significantly decrease a users comfort, therefore this variable was assigned a low weight.

1 - Mix of Users - Most of the users observed on the sidewalks of Dewey Avenue were walking (as
opposed to skateboarding, rollerblading, etc.). The presence of other non-walking users will not
significantly decrease a user's comfort; therefore, this variable was assigned a low weight.

3 - Path Width - Along the Dewey Avenue Corridor, the width of the sidewalk is important in terms of
comfort and a perception of safety.

3 - Obstructions - Obstructions can be a problem for those users with mobility impairments; however,
due to a lack of major obstructions along the corridor, this variable was assigned an average weight
of importance.

3 - Connectivity - The degree to which the path provides a useful, direct and logical link between key
departure points and destinations is an important measure of the walkability of the corridor and was
weighted accordingly.

3 - Personal Safety - User comfort is diminished if there is any perception that criminal activities or
violence is prevalent in the surrounding community; therefore, this variable was weighted as
important.

4 - Crossing Opportunities - Concern was expressed that pedestrian crossing facilities should be
given particular attention in this study; therefore, they were weighted more important in this
assessment.

4 - Support Facilities - Pedestrian amenities and road characteristics suited to pedestrians are likely
to contribute to users' desire to walk the corridor; therefore, support facilities were weighted more
important in this assessment.

4 - Path Environment - The quality and width of buffer space between a pedestrian and vehicular
traffic contributes positively to that pedestrian's level of comfort; hence, buffer space was weighted
more important in this assessment.

5 - Potential for Conflict - Pedestrian/vehicle conflicts are a recognized issue along the Dewey
Avenue Corridor, due to numerous driveways. This factor has been weighted heavily and most
importantly for this assessment.

5 - Surface Quality - The quality of the sidewalk's surface is of great importance to users for safety
and perception of the environment, and has been weighted accordingly for this assessment.

Based on the scale developed, the LOS was determined by the total point value accumulated. The
total is calculated by multiplying the points awarded to each variable based on field data by the
weight of that variable. The LOS for each segment is shown in Figure 10. A score of 180 is the
highest score attainable. The LOS was determined by the point scale identified in Table 4.

                                              Page 37
                                                                                  4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS



                                                          Table 4: Level of Service Scale
Level of Service Grading Scale
It should be noted that Pedestrian Level of Service
differs greatly from Vehicular Levels of Service. A
                                                             Level of Service Scale
Level of Service of "C" is generally considered an        LOS A             180 -132 points
acceptable vehicular level of service. Based on the       LOS B             101 -131 points
Australian Method, a Level of Service of "C" or lower     LOS C              69 -100 points
for a pedestrian level of service indicates that while    LOS D              37 - 68 points
basic pedestrian conditions exist, a significant number
                                                          LOS E                36 points
of factors impact the pedestrians' safety and comfort.


                            Figure 10: Pedestrian Level of Service




                                             Page 38
                                                                                           4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


             A pedestrian environment where ideal pedestrian conditions exist and the factors that
  LOS A
             negatively affect pedestrian LOS are minimal.
             Reasonable pedestrian conditions exist but a small number of factors impact
  LOS B
             pedestrian safety and comfort. LOS A is the ideal but LOS B is an acceptable standard.
             Basic pedestrian conditions exist, but a significant number of factors impact pedestrian
  LOS C
             safety and comfort.
             Poor pedestrian conditions exist and the factors that negatively affect pedestrian LOS
  LOS D      are wide-ranging or individually severe. Pedestrian comfort is minimal and safety
             concerns within the pedestrian environment are evident.
             The pedestrian environment is unsuitable. This situation occurs when all or almost all
  LOS E
             of the factors affecting pedestrian LOS are below acceptable standards.

3. Pedestrian Path LOS Examples


LOS `D'

East side of Dewey
Avenue, just north of
Ridge Road. This is one of
the worst performing
segments of sidewalk in
the entire corridor.




LOS `B'

East side of Dewey
Avenue, adjacent to Saint
Joseph's Villa, between
Clark Park and Dorsey
Road. This is one of the
best performing segments
of sidewalk in the corridor.




                                              Page 39
                                                                                         4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


The quality of the pedestrian realm in other segments of the corridor falls somewhere in between the
two examples given, most of them performing with a LOS of `C'. Generally, the LOS for corridor
segments on the east side of Dewey Avenue were slightly better than those on the west side. The
segments of Dewey Avenue that operate at pedestrian level of service "C" are not necessarily
substandard. However, there are a number of factors present that impact the pedestrians' comfort
and perceived level of safety. Table 5 illustrates the pedestrian LOS for each segment analyzed.
Variables that negatively affected the LOS were:

    -   Lack of sufficient buffer width                -   Lack of support facilities
    -   Inadequate crossing opportunities              -   Poor sidewalk quality

                             Table 5: Pedestrian LOS Assessment

              Side of                                                Total       PED
                            Zone               Segment
              Dewey                                                  Score       LOS
               EAST         CITY            Ridge-Eastman              66         D
              WEST         Zone 5          Dobson-English              68         D
              WEST         Zone 5          English-Leonard             68         D
              WEST         Zone 5          Leonard-Mosley              68         D
              WEST         Zone 6         Rumson-McGuire               70         C
               EAST         CITY        Winchester-Bennington          73         C
               EAST        Zone 1        Barnard-Shady Way             73         C
              WEST         Zone 7           Latta-Rumson               73         C
              WEST         Zone 5          McGuire-Denise              73         C
              WEST         Zone 5           Denise-Dobson              73         C
              WEST         Zone 4           Mosley-Hagar               74         C
              WEST          CITY             Velox-Ridge               74         C
              WEST         Zone 4           Hagar-Dorsey               77         C
              WEST         Zone 1         Beaumont-Dalston             77         C
               EAST         CITY            Eastman-Velox              78         C
              WEST         Zone 3         Dorsey-Brookridge            78         C
               EAST        Zone 1        Bennington-Barnard            81         C
               EAST        Zone 2        Shady Way-Maiden              81         C
               EAST        Zone 5          Dobson-Lawson               81         C
              WEST          CITY             Lenriet-Velox             81         C
               EAST        Zone 6          Lawson-Rumson               82         C
              WEST         Zone 1          Dalston-Eastland            82         C
              WEST          CITY          Bennington-Lenriet           82         C
               EAST         CITY          Velox-Winchester             83         C
              WEST         Zone 3          Briarcliff-Maiden           87         C
              WEST          CITY         Eastland-Bennington           87         C
               EAST        Zone 7           Latta-Rumson               87         C
              WEST         Zone 3        Brookridge-Briarcliff         90         C
              WEST         Zone 2         Maiden-Beaumont              90         C
               EAST        Zone 3            Maiden-Clark              91         C
               EAST        Zone 4           Dorsey-Ronald              92         C
               EAST        Zone 4           Ronald-Britton            105         B
               EAST        Zone 5           Britton-Dobson            105         B
               EAST        Zone 3            Clark-Dorsey             109         B



                                             Page 40
                                                    4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS



        Figure 11: Pedestrian Crosswalk Locations




                        Page 41
                                                                                            4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


The pedestrian assessment concluded that there are several segments of the Dewey Avenue
Corridor that have inadequate pedestrian facilities. The inadequate segments of the corridor do little
to encourage pedestrians to utilize the public realm to the fullest extent possible. Safe, comfortable,
and attractive pedestrian facilities often equate to increased pedestrian activity, which can have a
positive impact on public health, the environment, and economic development.

4. Crosswalk Assessment
Well-defined pedestrian crossings are very important to the safety and comfort of pedestrians. An
inventory of all marked crosswalks that traverse Dewey Avenue at signalized intersections was
performed for this study. Information was collected on the width, length, and presence of curb ramps
and pedestrian signals at each signalized crosswalk location. This data was then analyzed to
develop a LOS for each crosswalk that traverses Dewey Avenue at a signalized intersection.

                               Table 6: Crossing Level of Service
                       Ranked Signalized Crossing Level of Service
                 Crossing Dewey S. of Eastman                         2.79        C
                 Crossing Dewey S. of English                         2.76        C
                 Crossing Dewey S. of Britton                         2.76        C
                 Crossing Dewey N. of Dorsey                          2.73        C
                 Crossing Dewey S. of Denise                          2.68        C
                 Crossing Dewey N. of Eastman                         2.59        C
                 Crossing Dewey N. of Ridge                           2.56        C
                 Crossing Dewey N. of Stone                           2.51        C
                 Crossing Dewey N. of English                         2.47        B
                 Crossing Dewey N. of Britton                         2.47        B
                 Crossing Dewey N. of Merrill/Christian               2.45        B
                 Crossing Dewey S. of Stone                           2.43        B
                 Crossing Dewey N. of Denise                          2.37        B
                 Crossing Dewey N. of Northgate                       2.37        B
                 Crossing Dewey N. of Maiden                          2.33        B
                 Crossing Dewey S. of McCall                          2.31        B
                 Crossing Dewey S. of Merrill/Christian               2.31        B
                 Crossing Dewey N. of Dalston                         2.14        B
                 Crossing Dewey N. of Ellington                       2.11        B
                 Crossing Dewey N. of Bennington/Banker               2.11        B

Based on documentation of the crossing facilities available on Dewey Avenue, an assessment was
performed to determine how well the crosswalks serve pedestrians. The crosswalk assessment was
based on the Level of Service Model for Signalized Intersections for Pedestrians (Petritsch and
Landis). Several characteristics of the pedestrian crossing factored into the assessment, including:
    - number of potential conflicts between vehicles and pedestrians,
    - perceived comfort of pedestrians,
    - vehicle speed, and
    - number of lanes being crossed.

                                              Page 42
                                                                                          4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


These variables were used to analyze the level of service at each crosswalk. The results of this
analysis indicate that there are no immediate safety concerns at crosswalk locations within the study
area. On a grading scale of LOS `A' through LOS `F', the crosswalks on Dewey Avenue were rated
with LOS `B' or LOS `C', meaning they provide an acceptable way for crossing the street in a
reasonably safe and comfortable fashion (see Table 6). The only unsignalized marked crosswalk on
the corridor is located just north of Briarcliff Road, across from St. Joseph's Villa.

Although the results of the crosswalk assessment indicate that there are no apparent safety
concerns, it does not mean that the distance between marked crosswalks is convenient for
pedestrians. Activity level and pedestrian need, not distance, drive the decisions about where a
crosswalk is appropriate. However, it is important to note that there are several instances of great
distances between signalized crosswalk locations. Some pedestrians will not use a crosswalk if one
is not convenient, which can result in a safety issue.

V&T law permits pedestrians to cross at any unmarked, unsignalized intersection. Nevertheless, the
provision of marked crosswalks can benefit the pedestrian by showing them the most appropriate
places to cross, and the motorist by showing them where to expect pedestrians. Crosswalks can be
problematic when they give a pedestrian a false sense of security, but by basing recommendations
on activity levels and pedestrian needs, this potential problem will be avoided.

5. Examples of Crossing Facilities




Crossing facilities include the pavement markings, as well as the pedestrian crosswalk signals,
which indicate to pedestrians where and when they should cross.


                                             Page 43
                                                                                         4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


6. Summary
In general, there are pedestrian facilities currently in place along the Dewey Avenue Corridor,
including sidewalks, marked crosswalks, and pedestrian signals. The LOS scores for most of the
segments of the Dewey Avenue Corridor indicate that there is an opportunity to improve the
conditions that contribute to the safety and comfort experienced by pedestrians.

D. Walkability
The following section discusses different types of pedestrians, walking speed, walk score and a
comparison of the data derived from walk score and pedestrian level of service calculations. This
section discusses the different issues that contribute to the Dewey Avenue Corridor's walkability.

1. Types of Pedestrians
On average, two people walking side-by-side or passing one another generally require 4.67 feet of
space, while two people in wheelchairs need a minimum of 5 feet to pass one another. While the
minimum operating space and pedestrian facility width are relatively the same between users, the
skills, confidence and preferences of pedestrians vary. These variations are mostly a result of
differences in age and differences in physical, cognitive and sensory abilities.

Although AASHTO does not classify pedestrians in the same manner that they do bicyclists, a similar
hierarchy of ability levels is possible. Pedestrians can be described in the following groups:
    - Group A: Advanced Pedestrians ­ highest mobility level
    - Group B: Basic Pedestrians ­ moderate mobility level
    - Group C: Limited Mobility Pedestrians ­ lowest mobility level

Group A: Advanced Pedestrians
Group A is comprised of advanced or experienced walkers or joggers who are generally using the
sidewalks for exercise or to reach a destination. Advanced pedestrians are typically comfortable
walking or jogging year round in all weather conditions, maneuvering around obstacles and other
pedestrians, and crossing roads without adequate pedestrian crosswalk provisions. Sidewalks in
disrepair or with minimal road buffers usually do not deter usage by Group A pedestrians. Group A
pedestrians prefer:

    ·   Direct and convenient access to destinations in a walk or jog of less than 45 minutes.
    ·   The opportunity to walk or jog at varying speeds.
    ·   Sufficient operating space on the sidewalk to reduce or eliminate the need to slow down
        when passing other pedestrians.
    ·   Continuous sidewalks along the entire corridor.

Group B: Basic Pedestrians
Group B is comprised of basic adult and teenage walkers who use sidewalks for transportation
purposes, such as getting to the store or visiting friends, and for moderate recreational use. Group
B pedestrians typically walk from spring to fall, and will occasionally use well-plowed sidewalks
during the wintertime. Group B pedestrians prefer:

    ·   Comfortable access to destinations in a walk or jog of less than 20 minutes, preferably by a
        direct route.
    ·   Well-maintained, well-lit, continuous sidewalks with a minimum width of five feet and
        adequate buffers from roads.


                                             Page 44
                                                                                             4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


    ·    Marked crosswalks at intersections.
    ·    Resting areas at least every 1000 feet.
    ·    Sidewalks linking key destinations and neighborhood areas.

Group C: Limited Mobility Pedestrians
Group C is comprised of young children, seniors, and those with disabilities. This user group is often
walking with supervision and/or assistance. In addition, support equipment, such as children's
bicycles, strollers, and wheelchairs, is often used. They are walking to access key destinations or for
moderate recreational purposes. Group C pedestrians use sidewalks mainly in good weather from
spring to fall. Group C pedestrians prefer the following:

    ·    Access to key destinations surrounding residential areas, including schools, recreational or
         community facilities, shopping, or neighbors, within a five to ten minute walk.
    ·    Well-maintained, well-lit, continuous sidewalks with a minimum width of five feet and with
         moderate to large buffers from roads.
    ·    Crosswalks with pedestrian signal operation.
    ·    Resting areas at least every 500 feet.
    ·    Sidewalks linking key destinations and neighborhood areas.

2. Walking Speed
The New York State Supplement to the National Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
(MUTCD) for Streets and Highways 2003 Edition mandates that crossings be designed to
accommodate a walking speed of 3.5 feet per second. This walking speed should be used in the
design of any crossing facility in the Dewey Avenue Corridor.

3. Walk Score Criteria
Walk Score is an online tool that allows users to determine the walkability of a certain address based
on the number of pedestrian generators in close proximity to that address. Walk Score calculates
the walkability of an address by locating pedestrian generators such as nearby stores, restaurants,
schools, parks, etc. The walk score results can be used in conjunction with the pedestrian levels of
service to determine priority locations for improvements throughout the corridor.

                                    Table 7: Walk Score Scale


                                        Walk Score Scale

   Walk Score         Description                      Explanation
        90­100        Walkers' Paradise                Daily errands do not require a car.
        70­89         Very Walkable                    Most errands can be accomplished on foot.
        50­69         Somewhat Walkable                Some amenities within walking distance.
        25­49         Car-Dependent                    A few amenities within walking distance.
         0­24         Car-Dependent (Driving Only) Almost all errands require a car.




                                              Page 45
                                                                                          4
INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS


Generally, the tool measures how easy it is to live without the use of an automobile, not how
attractive the area is for walking. There are a number of factors, such as street design and safety,
which contribute to walkability but are difficult to measure with an algorithm.

The Walk Score algorithm awards points based on the distance to the closest amenity in each
category. Categories include: transit, grocery stores, restaurants, schools, coffee shops, libraries,
parks, bookstores, drug stores, hardware stores, bars, movie theaters, fitness, and clothing & music
stores. If the closest amenity in a category is within .25 miles, the system assigns the maximum
number of points. The number of points declines as the distance approaches 1 mile, and no points
are awarded for amenities further than 1 mile. Each category is weighted equally and the points are
summed and normalized to yield a score from 0 to 100. The number of nearby amenities is the
leading predictor of whether people walk.


                                      Figure 12: Walk Score




                                             Page 46
                                          SRF & Associates                                                                                                                                             SRF & Associates
                                  3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110                                                                                                                         3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110
                                                                    File Name                                              : Dewey_Latta_AM                                                                                      File Name                                                          : Dewey_Latta_AM
                                         Rochester, NY 14623        Site Code                                              : 00280351                                                                 Rochester, NY 14623        Site Code                                                          : 00280351
                                                                                                                Start Date : 12/11/2008                                                                                                                                                  Start Date : 12/11/2008
                                                                                                                Page No : 1                                                                                                                                                              Page No : 2

                                                                                                                                                                                 Dewey Avenue                        Latta Road                             Dewey Avenue                                 Latta Road
                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                                                                                                                                                                                   Southbound                       Westbound                                Northbound                                  Eastbound
                       Dewey Avenue                      Latta Road                    Dewey Avenue                      Latta Road
                        Southbound                       Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                         Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds           App. Total    Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                          Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Start Time     Right    Thru    Left    Peds   Right     Thru     Left Peds Right        Thru     Left   Peds    Right   Thru    Left   Peds Int. Total   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
   07:00 AM       14      49      6        0       4       69      18       0       10      15     39       0       30     45       6      0       305      07:00 AM     14      49       6     0      69      4   69     18    0         91         10   15       39      0         64        30     45         6   0        81         305
   07:15 AM       19      34      3        0       2       53      17       0       12       6     19       0       44     39       8      0       256      07:15 AM     19      34       3     0      56      2   53     17    0         72         12    6       19      0         37        44
   07:30 AM       17      54      4        0       7       52      20       0       12      18     43       0       28     51       9      0       315      07:30 AM     17      54       4     0      75      7   52     20    0         79         12   18       43      0         73        28     51       9    0        88         315
   07:45 AM       20      34     15        0       0       72      19       0       14      14     35       0       40     45     13       0       321      07:45 AM     20             15                        72                                 14                                                       13             98         321
       Total      70     171     28        0      13      246      74       0       48      53    136       0     142     180     36       0      1197     Total Volume  70 171         28      0     269     13 246      74    0       333          48   53       136      0      237        142     180     36    0       358        1197
                                                                                                                                                           % App. Total  26 63.6 10.4           0            3.9 73.9 22.2      0                  20.3 22.4      57.4      0                39.7    50.3   10.1    0
   08:00 AM      18       37      12       0      2        44      23       0      16       8     34        0      25     58      10       0       287             PHF .875 .792 .467 .000           .897 .464 .854 .925 .000          .915        .857 .736      .791   .000     .812       .807    .882   .692 .000      .913         .932
   08:15 AM      19       42       4       0      3        37      25       0      14      12     24        0      21     41       5       0       247      Unshifted    70 171         28      0     269     13 246      74    0       333          48   53       136      0      237        142     180     36    0       358        1197
   08:30 AM       9       30       5       0      5        64      19       0      28      19     40        0      26     48      11       0       304     % Unshifted 100 100 100              0     100 100 100 100           0       100         100 100        100      0      100        100     100    100    0       100          100
   08:45 AM       9       40      16       0     12        67      23       0      18      23     35        0      22     47      15       0       327         Bank 1      0       0      0     0       0      0    0      0    0         0           0    0         0      0        0          0       0      0    0         0            0
       Total     55      149      37       0     22       212      90       0      76      62    133        0      94    194      41       0      1165      % Bank 1       0       0      0     0       0      0    0      0    0         0           0    0         0      0        0          0       0      0    0         0            0
                                                                                                                                                               Bank 2      0       0      0     0       0      0    0      0    0         0           0    0         0      0        0          0       0      0    0         0            0
 Grand Total   125        320      65      0     35       458     164       0     124     115     269       0      236    374      77      0      2362      % Bank 2       0       0      0     0       0      0    0      0    0         0           0    0         0      0        0          0       0      0    0         0            0
   Apprch %    24.5      62.7   12.7       0    5.3      69.7       25      0    24.4    22.6      53       0     34.4   54.4   11.2       0
     Total %    5.3      13.5     2.8      0    1.5      19.4      6.9      0      5.2     4.9   11.4       0       10   15.8     3.3      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dewey Avenue
   Unshifted   125        320      65      0     35       458     164       0     124     115     269       0      236    374      77      0      2362                                                                        Out      In      Total
 % Unshifted   100        100    100       0    100       100     100       0     100     100     100       0      100    100    100       0       100                                                                         102      269     371
     Bank 1       0         0       0      0      0         0        0      0        0       0      0       0        0      0       0      0         0                                                                            0       0        0
   % Bank 1       0         0       0      0      0         0        0      0        0       0      0       0        0      0       0      0         0                                                                            0       0        0
     Bank 2       0         0       0      0      0         0        0      0        0       0      0       0        0      0       0      0         0                                                                         102      269     371
   % Bank 2       0         0       0      0      0         0        0      0        0       0      0       0        0      0       0      0         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70  171              28    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0     0               0   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0     0               0   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70  171              28    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Peak Hour Data




                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                        36
                                                                                                                                                                                        810


                                                                                                                                                                                        810


                                                                                                                                                                                                        36
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               256


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               256
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  180
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  180



                                                                                                                                                                                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Latta Road
                                                                                                                                                                                     Latta Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 246


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 246
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                            358


                                                                                                                                                                                            358
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 07:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    333


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    333
                                                                                                                                                                                                             142
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Unshifted




                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             142




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bank 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            74


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bank 2




                                                                                                                                                                                        452


                                                                                                                                                                                        452
                                                                                                                                                                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          589


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          589
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              136     53    48    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              136      53   48    0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               387      237     624
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               387      237     624
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Out      In      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dewey Avenue
                                            SRF & Associates                                                                                                                                                       SRF & Associates
                                    3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110                                                                                                                                   3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110
                                                                      File Name                                                   : Dewey_Latta_PM                                                                                           File Name                                                               : Dewey_Latta_PM
                                           Rochester, NY 14623        Site Code                                                   : 00280351                                                                      Rochester, NY 14623        Site Code                                                               : 00280351
                                                                                                                       Start Date : 12/11/2008                                                                                                                                                            Start Date : 12/11/2008
                                                                                                                       Page No : 1                                                                                                                                                                        Page No : 2

                                                                                                                                                                                              Dewey Avenue                        Latta Road                             Dewey Avenue                                   Latta Road
                                                          Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                Southbound                        Westbound                               Northbound                                    Eastbound
                        Dewey Avenue                        Latta Road                       Dewey Avenue                       Latta Road
                         Southbound                         Westbound                          Northbound                       Eastbound                             Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds             App. Total    Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total    Right   Thru     Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                     Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Start Time      Right     Thru    Left    Peds    Right     Thru      Left Peds       Right     Thru    Left   Peds     Right   Thru     Left   Peds    Int. Total   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
   04:00 PM        16       46     11         0       6       64       27        0       41       57     55        0       28     72       21       0        444       04:00 PM       16      46      11                    6   64     27    0        97          41     57                     153          28      72         21     0       121           444
   04:15 PM        17       35      9         0       2       69       27        0       41       33     64        0       29     84       29       0        439       04:15 PM       17      35       9      0       61    2   69                    98          41     33     64       0      138          29      84         29
   04:30 PM        32       41      8         0       5       45       40        0       38       55     41        0       33     92       23       0        453       04:30 PM       32      41       8      0       81    5   45     40    0        90          38     55     41       0      134          33      92         23     0       148           453
   04:45 PM        11       38      9         0       6       58       31        0       42       57     47        0       32     59       21       0        411       04:45 PM       11      38       9      0       58    6   58     31    0        95          42
        Total      76      160     37         0      19      236      125        0      162      202    207        0     122     307       94       0       1747      Total Volume    76 160          37      0      273   19 236 125        0       380         162     202    207      0      571         122     307      94         0      523        1747
                                                                                                                                                                      % App. Total  27.8 58.6 13.6            0             5 62.1 32.9      0                  28.4    35.4   36.3      0                 23.3    58.7      18         0
   05:00 PM       15       30       13       0       5        47       32        0      43      59       51       0       30     75       27       0         427              PHF .594 .870 .841 .000               .843 .792 .855 .781 .000        .969        .964    .886   .809   .000     .933        .924    .834    .810      .000     .883         .964
   05:15 PM       12       34        9       0       4        60       29        0      34      46       59       0       26     69       27       0         409       Unshifted      76 160          37      0      273   19 236 125        0       380         162     202    207      0      571         122     307      94         0      523        1747
   05:30 PM       16       48       13       0       5        52       22        0      33      38       44       0       33     60       28       0         392      % Unshifted    100 100 100              0      100 100 100 100         0       100         100     100    100      0      100         100     100     100         0      100          100
   05:45 PM       20       49       11       0       5        54       20        0      36      60       46       0       25     73       19       0         418           Bank 1       0       0      0      0         0   0    0      0    0         0           0       0      0      0        0           0       0       0         0        0            0
        Total     63      161       46       0      19       213      103        0     146     203      200       0      114    277      101       0        1646       % Bank 1         0       0      0      0         0   0    0      0    0         0           0       0      0      0        0           0       0       0         0        0            0
                                                                                                                                                                           Bank 2       0       0      0      0         0   0    0      0    0         0           0       0      0      0        0           0       0       0         0        0            0
 Grand Total     139       321       83      0       38       449     228        0     308      405     407       0       236    584     195       0        3393       % Bank 2         0       0      0      0         0   0    0      0    0         0           0       0      0      0        0           0       0       0         0        0            0
   Apprch %     25.6      59.1    15.3       0      5.3      62.8    31.9        0    27.5     36.2    36.3       0      23.3   57.5    19.2       0
     Total %      4.1       9.5     2.4      0      1.1      13.2      6.7       0      9.1    11.9      12       0         7   17.2      5.7      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Dewey Avenue
   Unshifted     139       321       83      0       38       449     228        0     308      405     407       0       236    584     195       0        3393                                                                           Out      In      Total
 % Unshifted     100       100     100       0     100        100     100        0     100      100     100       0       100    100     100       0         100                                                                            315      273     588
     Bank 1         0         0       0      0        0         0        0       0        0       0       0       0         0      0        0      0           0                                                                               0       0        0
   % Bank 1         0         0       0      0        0         0        0       0        0       0       0       0         0      0        0      0           0                                                                               0       0        0
     Bank 2         0         0       0      0        0         0        0       0        0       0       0       0         0      0        0      0           0                                                                            315      273     588
   % Bank 2         0         0       0      0        0         0        0       0        0       0       0       0         0      0        0      0           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            76  160              37    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0     0               0   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0     0               0   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            76  160              37    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Peak Hour Data




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    94
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1042


                                                                                                                                                                                                   1042
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           19


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           19


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              506


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              506
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              307
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              307



                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Latta Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Latta Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               236


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               236
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        523


                                                                                                                                                                                                        523
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                       In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   380


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   380
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Unshifted




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         125


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bank 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bank 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                    519


                                                                                                                                                                                                    519
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         886


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         886
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           207    202   162    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           207    202   162    0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            407      571     978
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            407      571     978
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out      In      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Dewey Avenue
                                            SRF & Associates                                                                                                                                                       SRF & Associates
                                    3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110                                                                                                                                   3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110
                                                                    File Name                                              : Dewey_Maiden_AM                                                                                               File Name                                                         : Dewey_Maiden_AM
                                           Rochester, NY 14623      Site Code                                              : 00280352                                                                             Rochester, NY 14623      Site Code                                                         : 00280352
                                                                                                                Start Date : 12/11/2008                                                                                                                                                           Start Date : 12/11/2008
                                                                                                                Page No : 1                                                                                                                                                                       Page No : 2

                                                                                                                                                                                            Dewey Avenue                                                                   Dewey Avenue                                Maiden Lane
                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                                                                                                                                                                                              Southbound                        Westbound                                   Northbound                                  Eastbound
                        Dewey Avenue                                                        Dewey Avenue                      Maiden Lane
                         Southbound                        Westbound                          Northbound                       Eastbound                            Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds             App. Total     Right      Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left Peds         App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Start Time      Right     Thru    Left   Peds    Right     Thru      Left Peds       Right     Thru    Left   Peds    Right    Thru    Left   Peds    Int. Total   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
   07:00 AM        10      100      0        0       0        0         0       0        0       47     36        0      27       0       7       0        227       07:15 AM       11 128           0      0      139    0    0     0    0             0         0         58     30      0       88         46       0        7       1          54       281
   07:15 AM        11      128      0        0       0        0         0       0        0       58     30        0      46       0       7       1        281       07:30 AM       12 179           0      0      191    0    0     0    0             0         0         60     35      0       95         30       1        5       0          36       322
   07:30 AM        12      179      0        0       0        0         0       0        0       60     35        0      30       1       5       0        322       07:45 AM       10 152           0      0      162    0    0     0    0             0         0         72     57      0      129         48                                            343
   07:45 AM        10      152      0        0       0        0         0       0        0       72     57        0      48       0       4       0        343       08:00 AM         9 110          0      0      119    0    0     0    0             0         0         43     21      0       64         42        0        7       0       49         232
        Total      43      559      0        0       0        0         0       0        0      237    158        0    151        1      23       1       1173      Total Volume    42 569           0      0      611    0    0     0    0             0         0        233    143      0      376        166        1       23       1      191        1178
                                                                                                                                                                    % App. Total   6.9 93.1          0      0             0    0     0    0                       0         62     38      0                86.9      0.5       12     0.5
   08:00 AM        9      110       0       0       0          0       0        0       0      43       21       0      42        0      7       0         232              PHF .875 .795 .000 .000               .800 .000 .000 .000 .000        .000         .000       .809   .627   .000     .729       .865    .250      .821   .250      .884         .859
   08:15 AM       11      109       0       0       0          0       0        0       0      50       20       0      35        0      2       0         227       Unshifted      42 569           0      0      611    0    0     0    0          0            0        233    143      0      376        166        1       23       1      191        1178
   08:30 AM        5      109       0       0       0          0       0        0       0      62       21       0      20        0      7       0         224      % Unshifted   100 100            0      0      100    0    0     0    0          0            0        100    100      0      100        100     100       100    100       100          100
   08:45 AM       11      109       0       0       0          0       0        0       0      53       20       0      25        0      9       0         227           Bank 1       0       0      0      0        0    0    0     0    0          0            0          0      0      0        0          0        0        0       0        0            0
        Total     36      437       0       0       0          0       0        0       0     208       82       0     122        0     25       0         910       % Bank 1         0       0      0      0        0    0    0     0    0          0            0          0      0      0        0          0        0        0       0        0            0
                                                                                                                                                                         Bank 2       0       0      0      0        0    0    0     0    0          0            0          0      0      0        0          0        0        0       0        0            0
 Grand Total       79      996      0       0       0          0       0        0       0      445     240       0     273        1      48       1       2083       % Bank 2         0       0      0      0        0    0    0     0    0          0            0          0      0      0        0          0        0        0       0        0            0
   Apprch %       7.3     92.7      0       0       0          0       0        0       0       65      35       0    84.5      0.3   14.9      0.3
     Total %      3.8     47.8      0       0       0          0       0        0       0     21.4    11.5       0    13.1        0     2.3       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dewey Avenue
   Unshifted       79      996      0       0       0          0       0        0       0      445     240       0     273        1      48       1       2083                                                                           Out      In      Total
 % Unshifted     100       100      0       0       0          0       0        0       0      100     100       0     100     100     100     100         100                                                                            256      611     867
     Bank 1         0        0      0       0       0          0       0        0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0                                                                               0       0        0
   % Bank 1         0        0      0       0       0          0       0        0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0                                                                               0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          256      611     867
     Bank 2         0        0      0       0       0          0       0        0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0
   % Bank 2         0        0      0       0       0          0       0        0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          42  569                   0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0     0                  0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0     0                  0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          42  569                   0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Right Thru            Left       Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Peak Hour Data




                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   23
                                                                                                                                                                                                  376


                                                                                                                                                                                                  376


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Maiden Lane




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          191


                                                                                                                                                                                                          191
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        166
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Unshifted




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        166




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bank 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bank 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                185


                                                                                                                                                                                                185
                                                                                                                                                                                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         143    233     0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         143    233     0    0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          735      376    1111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          735      376    1111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out      In      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dewey Avenue
                                            SRF & Associates                                                                                                                                                       SRF & Associates
                                    3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110                                                                                                                                   3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110
                                                                    File Name                                              : Dewey_Maiden_PM                                                                                               File Name                                                           : Dewey_Maiden_PM
                                           Rochester, NY 14623      Site Code                                              : 00280352                                                                             Rochester, NY 14623      Site Code                                                           : 00280352
                                                                                                                Start Date : 12/11/2008                                                                                                                                                             Start Date : 12/11/2008
                                                                                                                Page No : 1                                                                                                                                                                         Page No : 2

                                                                                                                                                                                            Dewey Avenue                                                                   Dewey Avenue                                 Maiden Lane
                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                                                                                                                                                                                              Southbound                        Westbound                                   Northbound                                   Eastbound
                        Dewey Avenue                                                        Dewey Avenue                      Maiden Lane
                         Southbound                        Westbound                          Northbound                       Eastbound                            Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds             App. Total     Right      Thru   Left   Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru  Left Peds         App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Start Time      Right     Thru    Left   Peds    Right     Thru      Left Peds       Right     Thru    Left   Peds    Right    Thru    Left   Peds    Int. Total   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
   04:00 PM        14       92      0        0       0        0         0       0        0      147     56        0      66       0      17       0        392       04:00 PM       14      92       0      0      106    0    0     0    0             0         0        147     56      0        203         66       0       17       0         83         392
   04:15 PM        15      119      0        0       0        0         0       0        0      131     62        0      49       0      28       1        405       04:15 PM       15 119           0      0      134    0    0     0    0             0         0        131     62      0        193         49       0       28       1
   04:30 PM        16      118      0        0       0        0         0       0        0      135     62        0      56       0      22       0        409       04:30 PM       16 118           0      0      134    0    0     0    0             0         0        135     62      0        197         56       0       22       0       78         409
   04:45 PM         4      126      0        0       0        0         0       0        0      152     64        0      75       0      24       0        445       04:45 PM         4 126          0      0      130    0    0     0    0             0         0        152     64      0        216         75       0       24       0       99         445
        Total      49      455      0        0       0        0         0       0        0      565    244        0    246        0      91       1       1651      Total Volume    49 455           0      0      504    0    0     0    0             0         0        565    244      0        809        246       0       91       1      338        1651
                                                                                                                                                                    % App. Total   9.7 90.3          0      0             0    0     0    0                       0       69.8   30.2      0                  72.8       0     26.9     0.3
   05:00 PM       11       91       0       0       0          0       0        0       1     147       49       0      61        4     13       0         377              PHF .766 .903 .000 .000               .940 .000 .000 .000 .000        .000         .000       .929   .953   .000       .936       .820    .000     .813   .250      .854         .928
   05:15 PM        7      108       0       0       0          0       0        0       0     163       55       0      57        2     20       0         412       Unshifted      49 455           0      0      504    0    0     0    0          0            0        565    244      0        809        246       0       91       1      338        1651
   05:30 PM       15       94       0       0       0          0       0        0       0     161       64       0      45        0     24       0         403      % Unshifted   100 100            0      0      100    0    0     0    0          0            0        100    100      0        100        100       0      100    100       100          100
   05:45 PM       22      112       0       0       0          0       0        0       0     107       60       0      62        3     23       0         389           Bank 1       0       0      0      0         0   0    0     0    0          0            0          0      0      0          0          0       0        0       0        0            0
        Total     55      405       0       0       0          0       0        0       1     578      228       0     225        9     80       0        1581       % Bank 1         0       0      0      0         0   0    0     0    0          0            0          0      0      0          0          0       0        0       0        0            0
                                                                                                                                                                         Bank 2       0       0      0      0         0   0    0     0    0          0            0          0      0      0          0          0       0        0       0        0            0
 Grand Total     104       860      0       0       0          0       0        0        1   1143      472       0     471        9    171        1       3232       % Bank 2         0       0      0      0         0   0    0     0    0          0            0          0      0      0          0          0       0        0       0        0            0
   Apprch %     10.8      89.2      0       0       0          0       0        0      0.1    70.7    29.2       0    72.2      1.4   26.2      0.2
     Total %      3.2     26.6      0       0       0          0       0        0        0    35.4    14.6       0    14.6      0.3     5.3       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dewey Avenue
   Unshifted     104       860      0       0       0          0       0        0        1   1143      472       0     471        9    171        1       3232                                                                           Out      In      Total
 % Unshifted     100       100      0       0       0          0       0        0     100      100     100       0     100     100     100     100         100                                                                            656      504    1160
     Bank 1         0        0      0       0       0          0       0        0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0                                                                               0       0        0
   % Bank 1         0        0      0       0       0          0       0        0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0                                                                               0       0        0
     Bank 2         0        0      0       0       0          0       0        0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0                                                                            656      504    1160
   % Bank 2         0        0      0       0       0          0       0        0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          49  455                   0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0     0                  0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0     0                  0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          49  455                   0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Right Thru            Left       Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Peak Hour Data




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   91
                                                                                                                                                                                                  631


                                                                                                                                                                                                  631
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                   91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Maiden Lane




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          338


                                                                                                                                                                                                          338
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        246
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Unshifted




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        246
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bank 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bank 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                293


                                                                                                                                                                                                293
                                                                                                                                                                                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         244    565     0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         244    565     0    0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          701      809    1510
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          701      809    1510
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out      In      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dewey Avenue
                                          SRF & Associates                                                                                                                                                 SRF & Associates
                                  3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110                                                                                                                             3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110
                                                                  File Name                                            : Dewey_McCall_AM                                                                                           File Name                                                                 : Dewey_McCall_AM
                                         Rochester, NY 14623      Site Code                                            : 00000000                                                                         Rochester, NY 14623      Site Code                                                                 : 00000000
                                                                                                            Start Date : 1/22/2009                                                                                                                                                                Start Date : 1/22/2009
                                                                                                            Page No : 1                                                                                                                                                                           Page No : 2

                                                                                                                                                                                  DEWEY AVE                           MCCALL RD                                   DEWEY AVE                                       MCCALL RD
                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                                                                                                                                                                                        Southbound                        Westbound                                  Northbound                                        Eastbound
                   DEWEY AVE                      MCCALL RD                         DEWEY AVE                         MCCALL RD
                      Southbound                       Westbound                          Northbound                     Eastbound                            Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds            App. Total     Right       Thru      Left    Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                             Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Start Time      Right  Thru    Left    Peds    Right   Thru      Left Peds       Right     Thru    Left   Peds    Right  Thru    Left   Peds    Int. Total   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
   07:00 AM         3   146      3         0       1      0         0       0        2       46      4        0      22     1       2       0        230       07:15 AM         9              2
   07:15 AM         9   159      2         0       0      0         0       0        0       45      1        0      26     1       4       0        247       07:30 AM         2 204          1      0      207    0    2     0    0            2          0            53      5       0         58       25        3       4     0        32         299
   07:30 AM         2   204      1         0       0      2         0       0        0       53      5        0      25     3       4       0        299       07:45 AM         9 198          1      0      208    0    0     0    0            0          1            73                        77       20        2       6     0        28         313
   07:45 AM         9   198      1         0       0      0         0       0        1       73      3        0      20     2       6       0        313       08:00 AM         2 128          2      0      132    1    0     1                            2                                               27                9              36         232
        Total      23   707      7         0       1      2         0       0        3      217     13        0      93     7      16       0       1089      Total Volume    22 689           6      0      717    1    2     1    0            4          3        227         13      0      243         98         6     23      0      127        1091
                                                                                                                                                              % App. Total   3.1 96.1        0.8      0            25   50    25    0                     1.2       93.4        5.3      0                77.2       4.7   18.1      0
   08:00 AM        2     128      2       0        1       0       1        0       2      56        4       0      27      0      9       0         232              PHF .611 .844 .750 .000               .862 .250 .250 .250 .000       .500         .375        .777      .650    .000     .789       .907     .500    .639   .000     .882         .871
   08:15 AM        3     141      1       0        1       0       1        0       2      70        4       0       9      0      2       0         234       Unshifted      22 689           6      0      717    1    2     1    0         4             3        227         13      0      243         98         6     23      0      127        1091
   08:30 AM       14     120      1       0        1       0       2        0       0      57        3       0      16      1      8       0         223      % Unshifted   100 100 100               0      100 100 100 100        0       100          100         100       100       0      100        100      100     100      0      100          100
   08:45 AM        5     114      2       0        0       3       1        0       3      67        5       0      18      1      5       1         225           Bank 1       0       0      0      0        0    0    0     0    0         0             0          0          0      0        0          0         0      0      0        0            0
        Total     24     503      6       0        3       3       5        0       7     250       16       0      70      2     24       1         914       % Bank 1         0       0      0      0        0    0    0     0    0         0             0          0          0      0        0          0         0      0      0        0            0
                                                                                                                                                                   Bank 2       0       0      0      0        0    0    0     0    0         0             0          0          0      0        0          0         0      0      0        0            0
 Grand Total       47   1210      13      0        4        5       5       0       10     467       29      0     163       9     40       1       2003       % Bank 2         0       0      0      0        0    0    0     0    0         0             0          0          0      0        0          0         0      0      0        0            0
   Apprch %       3.7    95.3      1      0    28.6     35.7    35.7        0        2    92.3      5.7      0    76.5     4.2   18.8     0.5
     Total %      2.3    60.4    0.6      0      0.2      0.2     0.2       0      0.5    23.3      1.4      0      8.1    0.4      2       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEWEY AVE
   Unshifted       47   1210      13      0        4        5       5       0       10     467       29      0     163       9     40       1       2003                                                                          Out    In                      Total
 % Unshifted     100      100   100       0     100      100     100        0     100      100     100       0     100    100     100    100         100                                                                           251    717                     968
     Bank 1         0       0      0      0        0        0       0       0        0       0        0      0        0      0      0       0          0                                                                              0     0                        0
   % Bank 1         0       0      0      0        0        0       0       0        0       0        0      0        0      0      0       0          0                                                                              0     0                        0
     Bank 2         0       0      0      0        0        0       0       0        0       0        0      0        0      0      0       0          0                                                                           251    717                     968
   % Bank 2         0       0      0      0        0        0       0       0        0       0        0      0        0      0      0       0          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22  689                   6      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0     0                  0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0     0                  0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22  689                   6      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Right Thru            Left       Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peak Hour Data




                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                           23
                                                                                                                                                                                            164


                                                                                                                                                                                            164


                                                                                                                                                                                                           23
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MCCALL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                                                                                         Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  127


                                                                                                                                                                                                  127
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                         MCCALL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Unshifted




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 98




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bank 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                           37
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                           37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bank 2




                                                                                                                                                                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13    227     3    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13    227     3    0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   788    243                    1031
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0     0                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0     0                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   788    243                    1031
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Out    In                      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEWEY AVE
                                         SRF & Associates                                                                                                                                                  SRF & Associates
                                 3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110                                                                                                                              3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110
                                                                 File Name                                            : Dewey_McCall_PM                                                                                            File Name                                                                  : Dewey_McCall_PM
                                        Rochester, NY 14623      Site Code                                            : 00000000                                                                          Rochester, NY 14623      Site Code                                                                  : 00000000
                                                                                                           Start Date : 1/21/2009                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date : 1/21/2009
                                                                                                           Page No : 1                                                                                                                                                                             Page No : 2

                                                                                                                                                                                  DEWEY AVE                            MCCALL RD                                      DEWEY AVE                                    MCCALL RD
                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                                                                                                                                                                                        Southbound                         Westbound                                     Northbound                                     Eastbound
                   DEWEY AVE                      MCCALL RD                        DEWEY AVE                         MCCALL RD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                          Northbound                     Eastbound                             Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds             App. Total     Right         Thru   Left   Peds     App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                             Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Start Time      Right  Thru    Left   Peds    Right   Thru      Left Peds       Right     Thru    Left   Peds    Right  Thru    Left    Peds    Int. Total   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
   04:00 PM        14   106      2        0       3      3         1       0        2      200     28        0      18     3      20        0        400       04:00 PM       14                                          3                                       2    200     28        0       230         18        3     20                 41         400
   04:15 PM         9    77      3        0       6      1         1       0        2      194     17        0       6     2      10        0        328       04:15 PM         9     77       3                     6    1     1    0            8               2    194     17        0       213          6        2     10      0          18         328
   04:30 PM        13   112      0        0       5      1         2       0        2      144     21        3      23     1      15        0        342       04:30 PM       13 112           0      0      125     5    1     2                                                        3                   23
   04:45 PM        13   106      1        0       2      3         1       0        1      155     19        0      11     2      11        0        325       04:45 PM       13 106           1      0      120     2    3     1    0           6           1          155     19       0       175         11         2     11      0       24         325
        Total      49   401      6        0      16      8         5       0        7      693     85        3      58     8      56        0       1395      Total Volume    49 401           6      0      456    16    8     5    0          29           7          693     85       3       788         58         8     56      0      122        1395
                                                                                                                                                              % App. Total  10.7 87.9        1.3      0           55.2 27.6 17.2     0                     0.9         87.9   10.8     0.4                 47.5       6.6   45.9      0
   05:00 PM        8    110      1       0        0       1       0        0       0     166       21       0      11      0      18       0         336              PHF .875 .895 .500 .000               .912 .667 .667 .625 .000        .906         .875          .866   .759   .250       .857       .630     .667    .700   .000     .744         .872
   05:15 PM       11    110      0       0        0       0       0        0       0     199       30       1      14      0      19       0         384       Unshifted      49 401           6      0      456    16    8     5    0        29             7          693     85       3       788         58         8     56      0      122        1395
   05:30 PM        8     97      0       0        0       0       1        0       0     144       15       0       9      0      16       1         291      % Unshifted    100 100 100              0      100 100 100 100         0       100          100           100    100    100        100        100      100     100      0      100          100
   05:45 PM        8     89      0       0        1       0       0        0       0     129       21       0       9      0       6       0         263           Bank 1       0       0      0      0         0    0    0     0    0         0             0            0      0       0         0          0         0      0      0        0            0
        Total     35    406      1       0        1       1       1        0       0     638       87       1      43      0      59       1        1274       % Bank 1         0       0      0      0         0    0    0     0    0         0             0            0      0       0         0          0         0      0      0        0            0
                                                                                                                                                                   Bank 2       0       0      0      0         0    0    0     0    0         0             0            0      0       0         0          0         0      0      0        0            0
 Grand Total       84    807      7      0       17        9       6       0        7   1331      172        4    101       8    115        1       2669       % Bank 2         0       0      0      0         0    0    0     0    0         0             0            0      0       0         0          0         0      0      0        0            0
   Apprch %       9.4   89.9    0.8      0    53.1     28.1    18.8        0      0.5    87.9    11.4      0.3   44.9     3.6   51.1      0.4
     Total %      3.1   30.2    0.3      0      0.6      0.3     0.2       0      0.3    49.9      6.4     0.1     3.8    0.3     4.3       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEWEY AVE
   Unshifted       84    807      7      0       17        9       6       0        7   1331      172        4    101       8    115        1       2669                                                                           Out    In                      Total
 % Unshifted     100     100   100       0     100      100     100        0     100      100     100     100     100    100     100     100         100                                                                            765    456                    1221
     Bank 1         0      0      0      0        0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0      0       0       0          0                                                                               0     0                        0
   % Bank 1         0      0      0      0        0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0      0       0       0          0                                                                               0     0                        0
     Bank 2         0      0      0      0        0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0      0       0       0          0                                                                            765    456                    1221
   % Bank 2         0      0      0      0        0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0      0       0       0          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    49  401                   6      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0     0                  0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0     0                  0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    49  401                   6      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru            Left       Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peak Hour Data




                                                                                                                                                                                                            56
                                                                                                                                                                                            264


                                                                                                                                                                                            264
                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                                                                            56
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MCCALL RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               21


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                                                                                                          Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  122


                                                                                                                                                                                                  122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                                                                                         MCCALL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Unshifted




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      29


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bank 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bank 2




                                                                                                                                                                                          142


                                                                                                                                                                                          142
                                                                                                                                                                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                50


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    85    693     7    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    85    693     7    3


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    464    788                    1252
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0     0                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0     0                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    464    788                    1252
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out    In                      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEWEY AVE
                                       SRF & Associates                                                                                                                                           SRF & Associates
                               3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110                                                                                                                       3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110
                                                                File Name                                           : Dewey_Stone_AM                                                                                       File Name                                                          : Dewey_Stone_AM
                                      Rochester, NY 14623       Site Code                                           : 00000000                                                                   Rochester, NY 14623       Site Code                                                          : 00000000
                                                                                                         Start Date : 12/11/2008                                                                                                                                                   Start Date : 12/11/2008
                                                                                                         Page No : 1                                                                                                                                                               Page No : 2

                                                                                                                                                                         DEWEY AVE                           STONE RD                                 DEWEY AVE                                  STONE RD
                                                   Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                                                                                                                                                                               Southbound                       Westbound                                Northbound                                   Eastbound
                  DEWEY AVE                      STONE RD                       DEWEY AVE                        STONE RD
                     Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                     Eastbound                          Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total    Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                      Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Start Time     Right Thru    Left    Peds    Right   Thru     Left Peds Right        Thru     Left   Peds    Right  Thru   Left     Peds Int. Total   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
   07:00 AM       13   96     23        1       31     80      10       1        7      42     10       0        2    21      6        0       343      07:15 AM      31 123        35                         84   16
   07:15 AM       31  123     35        0       23     84      16       0        4      54     15       0        5    27      7        0       424      07:30 AM      33 160        16      0     209     32   77   12    0        121            6   63       12      0        81          5      32      4    0         41         452
   07:30 AM       33  160     16        0       32     77      12       0        6      63     12       0        5    32      4        0       452      07:45 AM      21 158        20      0     199    36    81   10    1        128            6   66                        82          2      26     19              47         456
   07:45 AM       21  158     20        0       36     81      10       1        6      66     10       0        2    26    19         0       456      08:00 AM      25 116        20      0     161     22   56    9    2         89            3   51        19      0       73          6
       Total      98  537     94        1     122     322      48       2       23    225      47       0       14   106    36         0      1675     Total Volume  110 557        91      0     758 113 298       47    3        461           19 234         56      0      309         18      104     38    0      160        1688
                                                                                                                                                       % App. Total 14.5 73.5       12      0           24.5 64.6 10.2  0.7                     6.1 75.7      18.1      0                11.2       65   23.8    0
   08:00 AM      25    116     20       0      22      56       9       2       3      51      19       0       6     19       8       0       356             PHF .833 .870 .650 .000           .907 .785 .887 .734 .375         .900        .792 .886       .737   .000     .942       .750     .813   .500 .000     .851         .925
   08:15 AM      15    112     26       0      15      46      11       0       7      44      14       1      15     18       7       1       332      Unshifted 110 557           91      0     758 113 298       47    3        461           19 234         56      0      309         18      104     38    0      160        1688
   08:30 AM      18     82     15       3      27      53       5       1       7      47      11       0       9     29      13       0       320     % Unshifted 100 100 100              0     100 100 100 100 100              100         100 100         100      0      100        100      100    100    0      100          100
   08:45 AM      25    104     24       3      16      54       2       1       9      43       9       1       9     35      14       0       349         Bank 1      0       0      0     0       0      0    0    0    0          0            0    0         0      0        0          0        0      0    0        0            0
       Total     83    414     85       6      80     209      27       4      26     185      53       2      39    101      42       1      1357      % Bank 1       0       0      0     0       0      0    0    0    0          0            0    0         0      0        0          0        0      0    0        0            0
                                                                                                                                                           Bank 2      0       0      0     0       0      0    0    0    0          0            0    0         0      0        0          0        0      0    0        0            0
 Grand Total   181     951    179        7    202     531       75      6       49    410     100        2      53    207      78       1     3032      % Bank 2       0       0      0     0       0      0    0    0    0          0            0    0         0      0        0          0        0      0    0        0            0
   Apprch %    13.7   72.2   13.6      0.5   24.8    65.2      9.2    0.7      8.7   73.1    17.8      0.4   15.6    61.1      23     0.3
     Total %      6   31.4     5.9     0.2    6.7    17.5      2.5    0.2      1.6   13.5     3.3      0.1     1.7     6.8    2.6       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEWEY AVE
   Unshifted   181     951    179        7    202     531       75      6       49    410     100        2      53    207      78       1     3032                                                                       Out    In               Total
 % Unshifted   100     100    100     100     100     100     100     100     100     100     100     100     100     100    100     100       100                                                                        385    758             1143
     Bank 1       0      0       0       0      0       0        0      0        0      0       0        0       0       0      0       0        0                                                                           0     0                 0
   % Bank 1       0      0       0       0      0       0        0      0        0      0       0        0       0       0      0       0        0                                                                           0     0                 0
     Bank 2       0      0       0       0      0       0        0      0        0      0       0        0       0       0      0       0        0                                                                        385    758             1143
   % Bank 2       0      0       0       0      0       0        0      0        0      0       0        0       0       0      0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         110  557              91    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0     0               0   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0     0               0   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         110  557              91    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Peak Hour Data




                                                                                                                                                                                                  38
                                                                                                                                                                                   624


                                                                                                                                                                                   624
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0



                                                                                                                                                                                                  38
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                  Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        113


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        113




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STONE RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           214


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           214
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                                                                                            104
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            104



                                                                                                                                                                                                Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             298


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             298
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                         160


                                                                                                                                                                                         160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                                                STONE RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   461


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   461
                                                                                                                                                                                                        18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Unshifted




                                                                                                                                                                                                        18
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bank 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        47


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bank 2




                                                                                                                                                                                 464


                                                                                                                                                                                 464
                                                                                                                                                                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           675


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           675
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          56    234    19    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          56    234    19    0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          622    309              931
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0     0                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0     0                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          622    309              931
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out    In               Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEWEY AVE
                                       SRF & Associates                                                                                                                                          SRF & Associates
                               3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110                                                                                                                      3495 Winton Place, Bldg E, Suite 110
                                                                File Name                                          : Dewey_Stone_PM                                                                                       File Name                                                            : Dewey_Stone_PM
                                      Rochester, NY 14623       Site Code                                          : 00000000                                                                   Rochester, NY 14623       Site Code                                                            : 00000000
                                                                                                        Start Date : 12/11/2008                                                                                                                                                     Start Date : 12/11/2008
                                                                                                        Page No : 1                                                                                                                                                                 Page No : 2

                                                                                                                                                                        DEWEY AVE                           STONE RD                                 DEWEY AVE                                    STONE RD
                                                  Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                                                                                                                                                                              Southbound                       Westbound                                Northbound                                     Eastbound
                  DEWEY AVE                     STONE RD                       DEWEY AVE                        STONE RD
                     Southbound                     Westbound                       Northbound                     Eastbound                          Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total    Right    Thru   Left    Peds    App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                     Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Start Time     Right Thru    Left    Peds   Right   Thru     Left Peds Right        Thru     Left   Peds    Right  Thru   Left     Peds Int. Total   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
   04:00 PM       14  122     57        0      35     44      13       0       11    149      29       0       16    64    22         0       576      04:30 PM     29                                        63   22             124           15 143         22       0       180          17
   04:15 PM       22   98     41        0      43     53      13       1       17    135      27       2       15    92    32         1       592      04:45 PM     27 125         69      0     221    43    58   17    1        119           17 143         17       1       178          10      78     26    0      114          632
   04:30 PM       29   95     47        0      39     63      22       0       15    143      22       0       17    88    27         0       607      05:00 PM     19 108         39      0     166     30   46   10    0         86          23 156                           201           7      78     39
   04:45 PM       27  125     69        0      43     58      17       1       17    143      17       1       10    78    26         0       632      05:15 PM     24 108         56      0     188     35   54   13    2        104           13 147          11       0      171          12     102     33    0      147         610
       Total      92  440    214        0    160     218      65       2       60    570      95       3       58   322   107         1      2407     Total Volume  99 436 211             0     746 147 221       62    3        433           68 589          72       1      730          46     346    125    0      517        2426
                                                                                                                                                      % App. Total 13.3 58.4 28.3          0           33.9   51 14.3  0.7                     9.3 80.7        9.9     0.1                  8.9    66.9   24.2    0
   05:00 PM      19    108    39        0     30      46      10       0      23     156      22       0       7     78     39        0       577             PHF .853 .872 .764 .000           .844 .855 .877 .705 .375         .873        .739 .944       .818    .250      .908       .676     .848   .801 .000     .879         .960
   05:15 PM      24    108    56        0     35      54      13       2      13     147      11       0      12    102     33        0       610      Unshifted    99 436 211             0     746 147 221       62    3        433           68 589          72       1      730          46     346    125    0      517        2426
   05:30 PM      22     92    35        0     43      53       8       0      11     159      18       0      20     68     29        0       558     % Unshifted 100 100 100              0     100 100 100 100 100              100         100 100         100     100       100        100      100    100    0      100          100
   05:45 PM      26    111    51        0     39      49       8       0      19     118      19       0      15     79     31        0       565         Bank 1      0       0      0     0       0      0    0    0    0          0            0    0          0       0        0           0       0      0    0        0            0
       Total     91    419   181        0    147     202      39       2      66     580      70       0      54    327    132        0      2310      % Bank 1       0       0      0     0       0      0    0    0    0          0            0    0          0       0        0           0       0      0    0        0            0
                                                                                                                                                          Bank 2      0       0      0     0       0      0    0    0    0          0            0    0          0       0        0           0       0      0    0        0            0
 Grand Total   183     859    395       0    307     420     104       4     126    1150     165        3    112     649    239        1     4717      % Bank 2       0       0      0     0       0      0    0    0    0          0            0    0          0       0        0           0       0      0    0        0            0
   Apprch %    12.7   59.8   27.5       0   36.8    50.3    12.5     0.5      8.7    79.6   11.4      0.2   11.2    64.8   23.9      0.1
     Total %    3.9   18.2     8.4      0    6.5      8.9     2.2    0.1      2.7    24.4    3.5      0.1     2.4   13.8     5.1       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DEWEY AVE
   Unshifted   183     859    395       0    307     420     104       4     126    1150     165        3    112     649    239        1     4717                                                                       Out    In               Total
 % Unshifted   100     100    100       0    100     100     100     100     100      100    100     100     100     100    100     100       100                                                                        861    746             1607
     Bank 1       0      0       0      0      0        0       0      0        0       0      0        0       0      0       0       0        0                                                                           0     0                 0
   % Bank 1       0      0       0      0      0        0       0      0        0       0      0        0       0      0       0       0        0                                                                           0     0                 0
     Bank 2       0      0       0      0      0        0       0      0        0       0      0        0       0      0       0       0        0                                                                        861    746             1607
   % Bank 2       0      0       0      0      0        0       0      0        0       0      0        0       0      0       0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         99  436             211    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0     0               0   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0     0               0   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         99  436             211    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Peak Hour Data




                                                                                                                                                                                  909


                                                                                                                                                                                  909




                                                                                                                                                                                                125
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                125




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                 Total




                                                                                                                                                                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         147


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         147




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STONE RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             625


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             625
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                North




                                                                                                                                                                                                           346
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           346



                                                                                                                                                                                               Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              221


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              221
                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                        517


                                                                                                                                                                                        517
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                       In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                                                                                                               STONE RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     433


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     433
                                                                                                                                                                                                       46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Unshifted




                                                                                                                                                                                                       46
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bank 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         62


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bank 2




                                                                                                                                                                                392


                                                                                                                                                                                392
                                                                                                                                                                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1058


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1058
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         72    589    68    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0     0    0    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         72    589    68    1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         544    730             1274
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0     0                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0     0                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         544    730             1274
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out    In               Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DEWEY AVE
